---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] nonlocal 키워드와 중첩 함수 변수 수정"
description: " "
date: 2023-08-31
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

Python is a powerful language that allows us to use a wide range of programming techniques. One of these techniques is the use of **nonlocal** keywords to modify variables in nested functions. This article will explain how to use the nonlocal keyword in Python and provide an example of how to modify a nested function variable.

## What is the Nonlocal Keyword?

The nonlocal keyword is used to access and modify variables in a parent or enclosing scope. It is used to modify variables in nested functions, which are functions defined inside another function. This allows us to access and modify variables in the parent scope without having to pass them as arguments.

## How to Use the Nonlocal Keyword

To use the nonlocal keyword, you must first declare the variable you want to modify as nonlocal in the nested function. This tells Python that the variable is not local to the nested function, but is instead in the parent scope.

Once the variable is declared as nonlocal, you can then modify it in the nested function.

## Example

Let's look at an example of how to use the nonlocal keyword to modify a variable in a nested function.

We have a function `outer()` that contains a nested function `inner()`. The `inner()` function has a variable `x` that we want to modify.

```python
def outer():
    x = 10
    
    def inner():
        nonlocal x
        x += 5
        print(x)
    
    inner()

outer()
```

In this example, we declare the variable `x` as nonlocal in the `inner()` function. This tells Python that `x` is in the parent scope and can be modified. We then modify `x` by adding 5 to it.

When we call the `outer()` function, the `inner()` function is called and `x` is modified. The output of this code is `15`.

## Conclusion

In this article, we discussed how to use the nonlocal keyword in Python to modify variables in nested functions. We also provided an example of how to use the nonlocal keyword to modify a variable in a nested function.