---
layout: post
title: "[Python] Sets in Python"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-10
tags: [basic]
comments: true
share: true
---

In Python, a **set** is an unordered collection of unique elements. It is a powerful data structure that allows you to perform mathematical set operations such as union, intersection, and difference. In this blog post, we will explore the functionality and usage of sets in Python.

## Creating a Set

You can create a set in Python by enclosing a comma-separated list of elements within curly braces `{}`. Let's create a set of numbers:

```python
numbers_set = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
```

Alternatively, you can use the `set()` function to create a set:

```python
numbers_set = set([1, 2, 3, 4, 5])
```

## Adding and Removing Elements

Once a set is created, you can add elements to it using the `add()` method:

```python
numbers_set.add(6)
```

Similarly, you can remove elements from a set using the `remove()` method:

```python
numbers_set.remove(3)
```

## Operations on Sets

### Union of Sets

The union of two sets consists of all the elements present in both sets, without any duplicates. It can be performed using the `union()` method or the `|` operator:

```python
set1 = {1, 2, 3}
set2 = {3, 4, 5}

union_set = set1.union(set2)
# or
union_set = set1 | set2

print(union_set)  # Output: {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
```

### Intersection of Sets

The intersection of two sets consists of elements that are common to both sets. It can be performed using the `intersection()` method or the `&` operator:

```python
set1 = {1, 2, 3}
set2 = {3, 4, 5}

intersection_set = set1.intersection(set2)
# or
intersection_set = set1 & set2

print(intersection_set)  # Output: {3}
```

### Difference of Sets

The difference of two sets consists of elements that are present in the first set but not in the second set. It can be performed using the `difference()` method or the `-` operator:

```python
set1 = {1, 2, 3}
set2 = {3, 4, 5}

difference_set = set1.difference(set2)
# or
difference_set = set1 - set2

print(difference_set)  # Output: {1, 2}
```

### Subset and Superset

You can check if a set is a subset or superset of another set using the `issubset()` and `issuperset()` methods:

```python
set1 = {1, 2, 3}
set2 = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

print(set1.issubset(set2))  # Output: True
print(set2.issuperset(set1))  # Output: True
```

## Conclusion

Sets in Python are a versatile data structure that allows you to efficiently handle collections of unique elements. With the ability to perform set operations, such as union, intersection, and difference, sets provide a powerful tool for various applications. I hope this blog post has provided you with a good understanding of sets in Python and how to use them effectively in your programs. Happy coding!

*Rember to run code in Python environment to see the output.