---
layout: post
title: "자바스크립트 반복자(Iterator)"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-10
tags: [javascript]
comments: true
share: true
---

In JavaScript, an **iterator** is an object that provides a way to access elements in a collection one by one, allowing us to iterate over data structures like arrays, strings, maps, and sets. It provides a standardized iteration protocol and follows the **iterable protocol**.

The iterable protocol defines a method called `Symbol.iterator`, which is used to create an iterator object. This iterator object should have a `next()` method that returns the next element in the collection along with a boolean value to indicate if there are more elements left.

To understand iterators better, let's look at an example of how to create and use an iterator in JavaScript:

```javascript
const myArray = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

const iterator = myArray[Symbol.iterator]();

console.log(iterator.next()); // { value: 1, done: false }
console.log(iterator.next()); // { value: 2, done: false }
console.log(iterator.next()); // { value: 3, done: false }
console.log(iterator.next()); // { value: 4, done: false }
console.log(iterator.next()); // { value: 5, done: false }
console.log(iterator.next()); // { value: undefined, done: true }
```

In the code snippet above, we create an array `myArray` and obtain an iterator by using the `Symbol.iterator` method. We then use the `next()` method to iterate over the array and print the values. Each call to `next()` returns an object with a `value` property that represents the next element in the array and a `done` property that indicates if there are more elements left to iterate.

The `done` property will be `false` until all elements have been iterated. After the last element, `done` will be `true` and `value` will be `undefined`.

Iterators provide a simple yet powerful way to iterate over collections in JavaScript. They can be used in loops, such as `for...of` loops, and can also be manually controlled using the `next()` method.

Using iterators allows for more efficient memory usage, as you can process elements on the fly without the need to store the entire collection in memory.

In conclusion, understanding and utilizing iterators in JavaScript can greatly enhance your ability to work with collections and efficiently process data. It is an important concept to grasp for any JavaScript developer.