---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] aiohttp POST 요청 수행하기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,aiohttp]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will learn how to perform a **POST** request using the **aiohttp** library in Python. 

## Installing aiohttp

First, we need to install the aiohttp library. You can do this by running the following command:

```shell
pip install aiohttp
```

## Importing aiohttp

Next, we need to import the aiohttp library in our Python script:

```python
import aiohttp
```

## Sending a POST Request

To send a **POST** request, we can use the `aiohttp.ClientSession` class provided by the aiohttp library. 

Here is an example of sending a **POST** request to a server:

```python
import aiohttp
import asyncio

async def send_post_request():
    url = "https://example.com/api/endpoint"
    data = {"key1": "value1", "key2": "value2"}
    
    async with aiohttp.ClientSession() as session:
        async with session.post(url, data=data) as response:
            if response.status == 200:
                response_json = await response.json()
                print(response_json)
            else:
                print("Request failed")
            
loop = asyncio.get_event_loop()
loop.run_until_complete(send_post_request())
```

In the above example, we define an `async` function `send_post_request()` that sends a **POST** request to the specified URL with the given data using `session.post(url, data=data)`. 
We then check the status code of the response and print the response JSON if the status code is 200 (OK). Otherwise, we print "Request failed".

## Running the Code

To run the code, simply save it to a file, such as `post_request.py`, and execute the script using the Python interpreter:

```shell
python post_request.py
```

Ensure that you have an active internet connection, as the code makes a request to an external server.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to use the aiohttp library in Python to send a **POST** request. aiohttp provides a convenient and efficient way to make asynchronous HTTP requests in Python. You can now integrate this code into your own projects to perform **POST** requests. Happy coding!