---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] argparse 인수의 선택적 값 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [argparse]
comments: true
share: true
---

Python provides the `argparse` module, which makes it easy to parse command-line arguments and options. It allows you to define arguments, their types, and default values to create a flexible command-line interface for your Python programs.

In this blog post, we will focus on how to set optional values for arguments using `argparse`. This can be useful when you have arguments that are not required but can be provided if needed.

## Setting up `argparse`

To begin, let's import the `argparse` module and create a new parser object:

```python
import argparse

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
```

## Adding Optional Arguments

To define an optional argument, you can use the `add_argument()` method of the `parser` object. The `add_argument()` method takes several parameters, including the name of the argument, its type, default value, and help message.

```python
parser.add_argument("-o", "--optional", type=int, default=0, help="Optional argument with default value 0")
```

In the above example, we have defined an optional argument with the name `-o` and `--optional`, which can be used interchangeably. The `type` parameter specifies the type of the argument (in this case, an integer), and the `default` parameter sets the default value to 0. The `help` parameter provides a description of the argument when the `--help` option is used.

## Retrieving Optional Argument Values

To retrieve the value of an optional argument provided by the user, you can access it using the namespace returned by the `parse_args()` method of the `parser` object.

```python
args = parser.parse_args()

optional_value = args.optional
```

In the above code snippet, `parse_args()` will parse the command-line arguments and store them in the `args` variable. To retrieve the value of the optional argument, we can simply access the `optional` attribute of `args`.

## Example Usage

Here's an example of how you can use the optional arguments in a Python script:

```python
import argparse

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
parser.add_argument("-o", "--optional", type=int, default=0, help="Optional argument with default value 0")

args = parser.parse_args()

optional_value = args.optional

print("Optional value:", optional_value)
```

Running the script without providing any optional argument will result in the default value being used:

```bash
$ python script.py
Optional value: 0
```

Using the optional argument:

```bash
$ python script.py -o 42
Optional value: 42
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have learned how to set optional values for arguments using `argparse` in Python. With the help of the `add_argument()` method, we can define optional arguments, specify their types, and set default values. By using `parse_args()`, we can access the provided optional arguments and use them in our Python scripts.

Argparse is a powerful and flexible module that simplifies the process of handling command-line arguments and options. It gives you the ability to create robust command-line interfaces for your Python applications with ease.

I hope this blog post has been helpful in understanding how to set optional values for arguments using `argparse` in Python.