---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] mongoengine 복합 인덱스 생성하기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [mongoengine]
comments: true
share: true
---

MongoEngine is a Python Object-Document Mapper (ODM) for MongoDB, providing a high-level, declarative API for working with MongoDB databases. One of the powerful features of MongoDB is the ability to create compound indexes, which can significantly improve query performance. In this blog post, we will explore how to create compound indexes using MongoEngine in Python.

### What is a compound index?

A compound index, also known as a composite index, is an index that is created on multiple fields in a collection. Unlike single-field indexes that are created on a single field, a compound index involves multiple fields. This allows you to create indexes that are optimized for specific query patterns that involve multiple fields.

### Creating a compound index in MongoEngine

In MongoEngine, you can create a compound index by using the `index_compound()` method provided by the `Document` class. Let's consider an example where we have a `User` collection with fields `first_name` and `last_name`, and we want to create a compound index on both fields to optimize queries that involve searching by both first name and last name.

```python
from mongoengine import Document, StringField
from mongoengine import connect, IndexModel

class User(Document):
    first_name = StringField(required=True)
    last_name = StringField(required=True)

    meta = {
        'indexes': [
            IndexModel([('first_name', 1), ('last_name', 1)])
        ]
    }

# Connect to MongoDB
connect('your-database-name')

# Create the compound index
User.create_indexes()
```

In the example above, we define a `User` document with `first_name` and `last_name` fields. The `meta` field is used to define the indexes for the document. We create a compound index by passing a list of tuples containing the fields to be indexed and their sorting order to the `IndexModel`. In our case, we use `1` for ascending order.

Finally, we call the `create_indexes()` method to create the indexes in the database.

### Query optimization with compound indexes

Once the compound index is created, MongoDB can utilize it to optimize queries that involve searching by multiple fields. Queries that use the fields included in the compound index will benefit from improved search performance.

For instance, if you want to find all users with the first name "John" and the last name "Doe", the compound index will speed up the search significantly.

```python
User.objects(first_name="John", last_name="Doe")
```

### Conclusion

In this blog post, we have explored how to create compound indexes using MongoEngine in Python. Compound indexes can greatly enhance the performance of queries that involve multiple fields. By carefully selecting and creating compound indexes, you can optimize the search queries in your MongoDB database.

MongoEngine provides a simple and intuitive API for creating compound indexes, allowing you to take advantage of the power and flexibility of MongoDB in your Python applications.