---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] mongoengine 메타 데이터 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [mongoengine]
comments: true
share: true
---

Mongoengine is a Python Object-Document Mapper (ODM) that allows easy integration of MongoDB with Python applications. With the help of mongoengine, you can define your data models as Python classes and interact with MongoDB in a more intuitive and Pythonic way.

In mongoengine, you can define metadata for your models using the `meta` attribute. This metadata provides additional settings and options for your models. Let's take a look at some common use cases for configuring metadata in mongoengine.

### Collection Name

By default, mongoengine uses the class name converted to snake case as the collection name in MongoDB. However, you can customize the collection name by setting the `collection` attribute in the `meta` class.

```python
class MyModel(mongoengine.Document):
    meta = {'collection': 'my_custom_collection'}
    # rest of the model definition
```

In the above example, the `MyModel` documents will be stored in the collection named "my_custom_collection" instead of the default "my_model".

### Indexes

Indexes are crucial for improving query performance in MongoDB. You can define indexes for your models using the `indexes` attribute in the `meta` class. The value of the `indexes` attribute should be a list of dictionaries, where each dictionary represents an index specification.

```python
class MyModel(mongoengine.Document):
    meta = {
        'indexes': [
            {'fields': [('field1', 'asc'), ('field2', 'desc')]},
            {'fields': ['field3'], 'unique': True}
        ]
    }
    # rest of the model definition
```

In the above example, we define two indexes for the `MyModel`. The first index is a compound index on "field1" ascending and "field2" descending. The second index is a single field index on "field3" with a unique constraint.

### Ordering

You can specify the default ordering of query results using the `ordering` attribute in the `meta` class. The value of the `ordering` attribute should be a list of fields to order by.

```python
class MyModel(mongoengine.Document):
    meta = {'ordering': ['-created_at']}
    # rest of the model definition
```

In the above example, the query results of `MyModel.objects.all()` will be ordered by the "created_at" field in descending order by default.

### Additional Configuration

Other than the above examples, mongoengine provides various other options that can be configured using the `meta` attribute. Some common options include `allow_inheritance`, `db_alias`, `abstract`, `strict`, etc. You can refer to the mongoengine [documentation](http://docs.mongoengine.org/guide/defining-documents.html#meta-options) for a full list of available options.

Overall, using the `meta` attribute in mongoengine allows you to customize the behavior and settings of your models, providing flexibility and control over the MongoDB integration in your Python application.