---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] imageio 이미지 감마 조절"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,imageio]
comments: true
share: true
---

Image gamma adjustment is a technique used to manipulate the brightness and contrast of an image by applying a nonlinear transformation to its pixel values. In this blog post, we will explore how to perform gamma adjustment on images using the **imageio** library in Python.

## Installing imageio

Before we begin, let's make sure we have the **imageio** library installed. You can install it using pip by running the following command:

```shell
pip install imageio
```

## Loading and Displaying an Image

To get started, we first need to load an image using **imageio**. You can load an image by providing the file path to the `imread` function:

```python
import imageio

# Load image
image_path = 'path/to/image.jpg'
image = imageio.imread(image_path)
```

Once the image is loaded, we can display it using the `imshow` function:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Display image
plt.imshow(image)
plt.axis('off')
plt.show()
```

## Gamma Adjustment

Gamma adjustment is performed by applying a **gamma correction factor** to each pixel in the image. The formula for gamma adjustment is:

```
adjusted_pixel_value = original_pixel_value ** gamma_value
```

where `original_pixel_value` is the original intensity value of a pixel, and `gamma_value` controls the amount of adjustment applied.

To perform gamma adjustment using **imageio**, we can use the `adjust_gamma` function:

```python
import numpy as np
from skimage import exposure

# Define gamma value
gamma = 2.0

# Perform gamma adjustment
adjusted_image = exposure.adjust_gamma(image, gamma)

# Display the adjusted image
plt.imshow(adjusted_image)
plt.axis('off')
plt.show()
```

In the code above, we import `exposure` module from **skimage** to access the `adjust_gamma` function. We then pass the `image` array and the desired `gamma` value to perform the gamma adjustment.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to perform gamma adjustment on images using **imageio** in Python. Gamma adjustment is a powerful technique to enhance the brightness and contrast of an image. By adjusting the gamma value, you can achieve different effects and improve the visual quality of your images. Experiment with different gamma values to see the impact on your images!

Remember to install **imageio** using pip before running the examples, and make sure to have your desired image file available for loading. Happy image processing!