---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] subprocess `subprocess.pwd`: 작업 디렉터리 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [subprocess]
comments: true
share: true
---

In Python, the `subprocess` module provides a way to interact with the system and execute external commands. One useful aspect of this module is the ability to change or set the working directory for the executed command.

The `subprocess` module has a built-in function called `os.getcwd()` to retrieve the current working directory. However, to change the working directory, we often use the `os.chdir(path)` function. But in some cases where we need to execute an external command in a different working directory, we can utilize the `subprocess` module itself.

Let's take a look at how to set the working directory using the `subprocess` module in Python.

## Using the `subprocess` Module to Set the Working Directory

To set the working directory using the `subprocess` module, we can make use of the `cwd` parameter in the `subprocess.run()` function. This parameter allows us to specify the working directory for the command being executed.

Here's an example that demonstrates how to set the working directory using `subprocess`:

```python
import subprocess

path_to_directory = "/path/to/directory"
command_to_execute = "ls"

subprocess.run(command_to_execute, cwd=path_to_directory, shell=True)
```

In the above example, we have `path_to_directory` variable that stores the desired working directory path. We also have `command_to_execute` variable that contains the external command we want to run. The `subprocess.run()` function is then called with the `cwd` parameter set to `path_to_directory`.

The `cwd` parameter in `subprocess.run()` specifies the working directory for the command to be executed. By setting this parameter, the external command will be executed within the specified directory.

## Why Use `subprocess` to Set the Working Directory?

You might be wondering why you should use the `subprocess` module to set the working directory instead of using the `os.chdir()` function. Well, the primary reason is that by using `subprocess`, you can set the working directory specifically for the external command being executed, without affecting the working directory of the current Python process.

This can be incredibly useful in scenarios where you want to execute multiple commands in different directories within a single Python script. It allows you to isolate the effect of each command on its respective working directory.

## Conclusion

Setting the working directory for executed commands is essential in certain situations. The `subprocess` module in Python provides a convenient way to achieve this by using the `cwd` parameter in the `subprocess.run()` function.

By understanding how to manipulate the working directory using `subprocess`, you can enhance the flexibility and functionality of your Python scripts when it comes to executing external commands.