---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] argparse Namespace 객체 이해"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,argparse]
comments: true
share: true
---

If you've ever worked with command line interfaces (CLI) in Python, you've probably come across the `argparse` module. It provides a convenient way to parse command line arguments and convert them into Python objects.

One of the core components of `argparse` is the `Namespace` object. This object is automatically created by `argparse` and acts as a container for the values of the command line arguments.

## Creation of a `Namespace` Object

To create a `Namespace` object, you first need to define your CLI argument parser using `argparse.ArgumentParser()`. Once you've defined your parser, you can call the `parse_args()` method to parse the provided command line arguments and obtain a `Namespace` object.

Here's an example:

```python
import argparse

# Create argument parser
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
parser.add_argument('--input', help='input file')
parser.add_argument('--output', help='output file')

# Parse command line arguments
args = parser.parse_args()

# Access the values using the Namespace object
print(args.input)
print(args.output)
```

In the above example, we define two command line arguments: `--input` and `--output`. After parsing the command line arguments, the values are stored in the `args` object, which is an instance of `Namespace`. We can access the values using the attribute syntax (`args.input` and `args.output` in this case).

## Accessing Values in a `Namespace` Object

As mentioned above, the values of the command line arguments can be accessed using the attribute syntax with the `args` object. Each command line argument is represented as an attribute in the `Namespace` object.

If an argument is provided on the command line, its value will be stored in the respective attribute. If an argument is not provided or has a default value, the attribute will have `None` assigned to it.

In case an argument is specified multiple times, the last occurrence will be the value stored in the `args` object.

Here's an example to demonstrate accessing values in a `Namespace` object:

```python
import argparse

# Create argument parser
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
parser.add_argument('--name', default='John Doe', help='name of the person')
parser.add_argument('--age', type=int, help='age of the person')

# Parse command line arguments
args = parser.parse_args()

# Access the values using the Namespace object
print(args.name)
print(args.age)
```

In this example, the `--name` argument has a default value of `'John Doe'`, and the `--age` argument expects an integer. If no value is provided for `--age`, its attribute in the `args` object will be `None`.

## Conclusion

Understanding the `Namespace` object in the `argparse` module is essential when working with command line interfaces in Python. It allows us to access the values of command line arguments in a convenient and structured manner.