---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] imageio 이미지 시퀀스 저장"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [imageio]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use the **Imageio** library in Python to save image sequences. **Imageio** is a powerful library that allows us to read and write a wide variety of image formats. Saving image sequences is often required in computer vision, image processing, and machine learning applications.

## Installation

Before we get started, let's make sure we have **Imageio** installed. You can install it using *pip* by running the following command:

```python
pip install imageio
```

## Saving an Image Sequence

Let's begin by writing a Python script that saves a sequence of images as an image sequence file. We will assume that you already have a list of image frames stored in variable `images`.

```python
import imageio

# Specify the path and filename pattern for the output image sequence
output_path = "path/to/output/folder/"
filename_pattern = "frame_{:04d}.png"

# Save each image frame in the sequence
for i, image in enumerate(images):
    # Use the filename pattern and frame number to generate the filename
    filename = filename_pattern.format(i)
    # Save the image using Imageio
    imageio.imwrite(output_path + filename, image)
```

In the above code snippet, we iterate over each image frame in the `images` list. We use the `filename_pattern` to generate the output filename that includes the frame number. Finally, we save each image frame using the `imwrite` function from the **Imageio** library.

Note that you can customize the `filename_pattern` to suit your needs. In the example above, we used the format `frame_{:04d}.png`, which will create filenames in the format `frame_0000.png`, `frame_0001.png`, and so on.

## Supported Image Formats

One of the advantages of using **Imageio** is its ability to read and write a wide range of image formats, including popular formats like **PNG**, **JPEG**, **GIF**, and **TIFF**. You can easily adapt the code in the previous section to save image sequences in different formats by changing the extension of the output filename.

```python
filename_pattern = "frame_{:04d}.jpg"  # save as JPEG
filename_pattern = "frame_{:04d}.gif"  # save as GIF
filename_pattern = "frame_{:04d}.tiff" # save as TIFF
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use the **Imageio** library in Python to save image sequences. We learned how to specify a path and filename pattern for the output, as well as how to save a sequence of images using the `imwrite` function. We also mentioned the wide range of supported image formats that **Imageio** provides.

With **Imageio**, saving image sequences in Python becomes a straightforward task, allowing you to easily process and analyze sequential image data in your projects. Give it a try and see how it can enhance your image-based applications!