---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests Multipart 인코딩 데이터 전송"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,requests]
comments: true
share: true
---

When working with APIs or sending data via HTTP requests, there might be cases where you need to send **multipart-encoded data**. This type of encoding allows you to combine different types of data such as text, files, or images into a single HTTP request payload.

In Python, the `requests` library provides an easy way to send multipart-encoded data. In this blog post, we will explore how to use the `requests` library to send multipart data, including text and files, in Python.

## Installation

Before we start, make sure you have the `requests` library installed. You can install it using `pip`:

```
pip install requests
```

Once the installation is complete, you can import the `requests` module in your Python script or interactive session.

## Sending Multipart Data

To send multipart data using the `requests` library, we need to use the `multipart/form-data` content type and create a `multipart_encoder` object from the `requests_toolbelt` module.

```python
import requests
from requests_toolbelt.multipart.encoder import MultipartEncoder

# Create the multipart encoder object
multipart_data = MultipartEncoder(
    fields={
        'field1': 'value1',
        'field2': 'value2',
        'file': ('filename.txt', open('path/to/file.txt', 'rb'), 'text/plain')
    }
)

# Set the headers
headers = {'Content-Type': multipart_data.content_type}

# Send the request
response = requests.post('https://example.com/upload', data=multipart_data, headers=headers)

# Print the response
print(response.text)
```

In the example above, we create a `multipart_data` object using the `MultipartEncoder` class and set the fields we want to include in the request. The `fields` parameter is a dictionary where we can specify text fields as key-value pairs and files as (filename, file_object, content_type) tuples.

We also set the appropriate `Content-Type` header to indicate that we are sending multipart data.

Finally, we send the `POST` request using the `requests.post` method, passing the `multipart_data` object as the `data` parameter and the `headers` dictionary containing the `Content-Type` header.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have seen how to send multipart-encoded data using the `requests` library in Python. Sending multipart data is essential when working with APIs that expect this type of data format.

By utilizing the `requests_toolbelt` module and the `MultipartEncoder` class, we can easily create the necessary multipart data and send it via the `requests.post` method.

I hope you found this blog post helpful. Feel free to explore the `requests` documentation for more details on sending other types of data using this powerful Python library.