---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] seaborn 조인트 플롯(Joint plot)"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,seaborn]
comments: true
share: true
---

Seaborn is a powerful Python library that allows us to create beautiful and informative statistical graphics. One of its popular features is the ability to create joint plots, also known as scatter plots with additional visual elements such as histograms and density plots.

In this blog post, we will explore how to create a joint plot using Seaborn in Python. 

## Installation

Before we begin, make sure you have Seaborn installed. If not, you can install it using pip:

```
pip install seaborn
```

## Importing Libraries

To get started, let's import the necessary libraries. We will be using `seaborn` for creating the joint plot and `matplotlib.pyplot` for displaying the plot.

```python
import seaborn as sns
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
```

## Loading the Data

Next, let's load the data that we will be using for our joint plot. We will use the built-in `tips` dataset from Seaborn, which contains information about tips given by customers in a restaurant.

```python
# Load the tips dataset
tips = sns.load_dataset("tips")
```

## Creating a Joint Plot

Now, let's create our joint plot using the `sns.jointplot()` function. This function takes in two numeric variables and displays their joint relationship.

```python
# Create a joint plot
sns.jointplot(x="total_bill", y="tip", data=tips)
```

By default, a scatter plot is created with histograms on the top and right side of the plot to show the distribution of each variable. The scatter plot visualizes the relationship between the `total_bill` and `tip` variables.

## Customizing the Joint Plot

Seaborn provides various options to customize the joint plot according to our needs. We can customize the colors, markers, and size of the plot as well as add additional visualizations such as kernel density estimates (kde) or hexbin plots.

For example, let's customize our joint plot to use a different color, marker, and increase the size of the scatter points.

```python
# Customize the joint plot
sns.jointplot(x="total_bill", y="tip", data=tips, color="green", marker="o", s=100)
```

You can explore more customization options in the Seaborn documentation to create the desired visualizations.

## Displaying the Plot

Finally, let's display our joint plot using `plt.show()`.

```python
# Display the plot
plt.show()
```

And there you have it! With just a few lines of code, we were able to create a beautiful and informative joint plot using Seaborn in Python. Joint plots are a great way to visualize relationships between two numeric variables and gain insights from your data.

Happy plotting!