---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests 커스텀 인증 어댑터"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,requests]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to create a custom authentication adapter for the `requests` library in Python. This can be useful when working with APIs that have non-standard or custom authentication methods.

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this tutorial, make sure you have the `requests` library installed. You can install it using `pip`:

```python
pip install requests
```

## Creating the Custom Authentication Adapter

To create a custom authentication adapter, we need to subclass the `requests.auth.AuthBase` class and override the `__call__` method.

Here's an example implementation of a custom authentication adapter that adds custom headers to the request:

```python
import requests
from requests.auth import AuthBase

class CustomAuth(AuthBase):
    def __init__(self, token):
        self.token = token

    def __call__(self, r):
        # modify the request headers
        r.headers['Authorization'] = f'Token {self.token}'
        r.headers['Custom-Header'] = 'Custom Value'
        return r
```

In the `__init__` method, you can initialize any custom parameters required for authentication. In this example, we are initializing the authentication token.

In the `__call__` method, we modify the request object by adding custom headers. The modified request is then returned.

You can customize the `__call__` method to implement any custom authentication logic specific to your use case.

## Using the Custom Authentication Adapter with Requests

To use our custom authentication adapter with `requests`, we simply pass an instance of our custom adapter as the `auth` parameter when making a request:

```python
url = 'https://api.example.com/resource'
auth = CustomAuth(token='your_token_here')
response = requests.get(url, auth=auth)

print(response.json())
```

In this example, we are making a `GET` request to an API endpoint and passing our custom authentication adapter as the `auth` parameter.

You can use the same approach for other HTTP methods (`POST`, `PUT`, etc.) and different API endpoints.

## Conclusion

Creating a custom authentication adapter for the `requests` library allows us to handle non-standard or custom authentication methods when interacting with APIs. By subclassing the `requests.auth.AuthBase` class and overriding the `__call__` method, we can implement our custom authentication logic.

I hope you found this tutorial helpful. Happy coding!