---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] argparse 인수의 기본값 오버라이드"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,argparse]
comments: true
share: true
---

Argparse is a powerful library in Python for parsing command-line arguments. It provides a convenient way to define various options and arguments that can be passed to a Python script when executed from the command line. One of the key features of argparse is the ability to set default values for these arguments.

In some cases, you may want to override the default values of argparse arguments programmatically, rather than manually specifying them on the command line every time. This can be useful when you have a predefined set of default values but need to change them dynamically based on certain conditions or inputs.

To override argparse default values programmatically, you can follow these steps:

1. Import the `argparse` module.
```python
import argparse
```

2. Create an instance of the `ArgumentParser` class.
```python
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
```

3. Define the desired command-line arguments using the `add_argument` method, including the default values.
```python
parser.add_argument('--option', default='default_value', help='Description of the option')
```

4. Parse the command-line arguments.
```python
args = parser.parse_args()
```

5. Override the default value of an argument if needed.
```python
if some_condition:
    args.option = 'new_value'
```

Now, when you access the value of the `--option` argument later in your code, it will reflect the updated value if the condition is met.

Here's a complete example demonstrating the code flow:

```python
import argparse

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
parser.add_argument('--option', default='default_value', help='Description of the option')
args = parser.parse_args()

if some_condition:
    args.option = 'new_value'

# Access the value of the argument
print(args.option)
```

In this example, if the `some_condition` evaluates to `True`, the value of `args.option` will be `'new_value'`. Otherwise, it will be `'default_value'`.

By overriding argparse default values programmatically, you can have more control over the behavior of your script and modify the argument values based on specific conditions or inputs.