---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests 청크 인코딩 요청"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,requests]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to send a **chunked encoding request** using the **Requests** library in Python. Chunked encoding is a transfer encoding method that allows the server to send large amounts of data in smaller, more manageable chunks.

## Prerequisites

Make sure you have the **Requests** library installed. You can install it using pip:

```
pip install requests
```

## Sending a Chunked Encoding Request

To send a chunked encoding request, we need to use the **chunked** parameter of the **requests.post()** method. Let's take a look at an example:

```python
import requests

url = "https://example.com/upload"
data = "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit."

headers = {
    "Content-Type": "text/plain",
    "Transfer-Encoding": "chunked"
}

response = requests.post(url, data=data, headers=headers)
```

In the above example, we are sending a POST request to the url "https://example.com/upload" with some sample data. We set the **Content-Type** header to "text/plain" to specify the type of data being sent. Next, we set the **Transfer-Encoding** header to "chunked" to indicate that we want to use chunked encoding for the request.

## Verifying the Response

After sending the request, we can check the status code and content of the response to verify if the request was successful:

```python
print(response.status_code)  # Print the status code
print(response.text)  # Print the response content
```

If the request was successful, the status code would be 200, and the response content would contain any data returned by the server.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to send a chunked encoding request using the Requests library in Python. Chunked encoding is a useful technique when dealing with large amounts of data, as it allows for efficient transmission and processing. Make sure to check the Requests documentation for more information on the various features and options available.

Happy coding!