---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] imageio 이미지 코덱 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python,imageio]
comments: true
share: true
---

Imageio is a popular Python library that allows you to read and write images in various formats. One of the key features of Imageio is its ability to configure and use different image codecs for encoding and decoding images. In this blog post, we will explore how to set the image codecs in Imageio to manipulate images efficiently.

## Installing imageio

Before we dive into the image codec configuration, let's make sure we have Imageio installed. You can install Imageio using pip with the following command:

```python
pip install imageio
```

## Setting the Image Codec

Imageio provides a simple and intuitive way to configure the image codec. You can set the codec using the `imwrite` function, which is used to write an image to a file. Here's an example of how to set the image codec:

```python
import imageio

# Set the imageio codec for writing images
imageio.plugins.ffmpeg.download()  # Downloads the ffmpeg codec if not already installed
imageio.imwrite('output.jpg', image, codec='jpeg')
```

In the code snippet above, we import the `imageio` library and then call the `imwrite` function. We pass the image, along with the desired output file name and the codec we want to use for encoding the image (in this case, 'jpeg').

## Available Codecs

Imageio supports a variety of image codecs, including JPEG, PNG, GIF, BMP, and many others. The available codecs can vary depending on your system configuration and installed libraries. You can check the available codecs using the `help` function:

```python
import imageio

print(imageio.help('formats'))
```

Running the above code will display a list of available codecs along with their format names.

## Conclusion

Configuring image codecs with Imageio is a powerful feature that allows you to control how images are encoded and decoded. By understanding how to set the image codec, you can efficiently work with different image formats and achieve the desired output.

In this blog post, we covered the basics of setting image codecs in Imageio. Experiment with different codecs and explore other features of Imageio to enhance your image processing applications. Happy coding!

*Note: Don't forget to import the necessary libraries and have the required codecs installed on your system.*