---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Keras 시퀀셜 모델 설계"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [Keras]
comments: true
share: true
---

Keras is a high-level deep learning library that allows users to easily design and train neural networks. One of the fundamental concepts in Keras is the Sequential model, which is a linear stack of layers. In this blog post, we will discuss how to design a Sequential model in Python using Keras.

## Installing Keras and its Dependencies

Before we can start designing the Sequential model, we need to install Keras and its dependencies. You can install Keras using the following command:

```python
pip install keras
```

Keras requires a backend engine to run, such as TensorFlow or Theano. You can install TensorFlow using the following command:

```python
pip install tensorflow
```

Alternatively, you can install Theano or any other supported backend.

## Importing the Required Libraries

To design the Sequential model, we need to import the required libraries. In this example, we will import Keras and the layers module:

```python
import keras
from keras import layers
```

## Designing the Sequential Model

To design a Sequential model, we need to create an instance of the Sequential class and add layers to it. Each layer represents a specific computation that takes place during the forward pass of the neural network.

Here is an example of a simple Sequential model with two fully connected layers:

```python
model = keras.Sequential()

model.add(layers.Dense(64, activation='relu', input_dim=100))
model.add(layers.Dense(10, activation='softmax'))
```

In this example, we added two layers to the model. The first layer is a dense layer with 64 units, ReLU activation function, and an input dimension of 100. The second layer is a dense layer with 10 units and a softmax activation function.

To add layers to the Sequential model, we use the `add()` method of the model instance. Each layer is represented by a class from the layers module, such as Dense, Conv2D, etc. We can specify the configuration of each layer, such as the number of units, activation function, etc.

## Compiling and Training the Sequential Model

Once we have designed the Sequential model, we need to compile it and train it on our data. To compile the model, we need to specify the loss function, optimizer, and evaluation metrics.

```python
model.compile(loss='categorical_crossentropy', optimizer='adam', metrics=['accuracy'])
```

In this example, we specified the categorical cross-entropy loss function, Adam optimizer, and accuracy as the evaluation metric.

To train the model, we need to provide the input data and the corresponding labels. We can use the `fit()` method to train the model:

```python
model.fit(x_train, y_train, epochs=10, batch_size=32)
```

In this example, we trained the model for 10 epochs using a batch size of 32.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we discussed how to design a Sequential model in Python using Keras. We learned how to import the required libraries, design the model architecture, compile the model, and train it on data. The Sequential model is a simple yet powerful concept in Keras that allows us to easily design and train neural networks.