---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] os 디렉토리 삭제: `os.rmdir()`"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-07
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

In Python, the `os` module provides a wide range of methods for interacting with the operating system. One useful function from this module is `os.rmdir()`, which allows you to delete directories. In this blog post, we will explore how to use `os.rmdir()` to remove directories in Python.

## Syntax of `os.rmdir()`

Before we dive into the usage, let's take a look at the syntax of `os.rmdir()`:

```python
os.rmdir(path)
```

The `path` parameter represents the path of the directory you want to delete. It can be a relative or absolute path.

## Deleting a Directory

To delete a directory using `os.rmdir()`, we first need to import the `os` module:

```python
import os
```

Let's say we have a directory named `my_directory` that we want to remove. We can use `os.rmdir()` as follows:

```python
os.rmdir("my_directory")
```

If the directory is located in a different path, you need to provide the complete path.

## Handling Exceptions

It's important to note that `os.rmdir()` will raise an exception if the directory is not empty. To handle this exception, we can use a `try-except` block:

```python
try:
    os.rmdir("my_directory")
except OSError as e:
    print(f"Failed to delete: {e}")
```

In this example, if an exception is raised, the error message will be printed.

## Conclusion

The `os.rmdir()` function in Python provides a simple way to delete directories. Remember to handle exceptions appropriately, especially when trying to delete non-empty directories. Now you have the knowledge to remove directories using `os.rmdir()` in Python.

Happy coding!