---
layout: post
title: "[swift] Swift 구조체의 Hashable 프로토콜 채택 방법에 대해 알려주세요."
description: " "
date: 2023-12-11
tags: [swift]
comments: true
share: true
---

# Adopting the Hashable Protocol in Swift

In Swift, the Hashable protocol is used to provide a hash value for instances of a type. This is important when you need to store instances in collections like sets or dictionaries.

Assuming you have a `Person` struct with `name` and `age` properties, and you want it to be hashable, here's how you can adopt the Hashable protocol.

```swift
struct Person: Hashable {
    let name: String
    let age: Int
}
```

In this example, the `Person` struct conforms to the Hashable protocol by adding conformance to the struct declaration. The Swift compiler automatically generates the necessary hashValue and equality functions based on the properties of the struct.

Now, you can use instances of the `Person` struct in a set or a dictionary, and the Swift compiler will make sure the hash values are generated correctly.

This makes it easy to use custom types in collections, without worrying about implementing hash values and equality functions manually.

By adopting the Hashable protocol, you enable instances of your custom type to be used in collections that require hashing and equating.

That's it! You've now learned how to adopt the Hashable protocol in Swift.

For more detailed information, please refer to the [Swift documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/swift/hashable).

I hope this helps! Let me know if you need further assistance.