---
layout: post
title: "[c++] User-defined literals"
description: " "
date: 2023-12-11
tags: [c++]
comments: true
share: true
---

In C++, user-defined literals enable developers to define their own custom suffixes for literal constants. This enables the creation of convenient and expressive syntax for initializing values of user-defined types. User-defined literals can be defined for integer, floating-point, character, and string literals.

## Syntax

To define a user-defined literal, the following syntax is used:

```cpp
return_type operator"" suffix_name (parameter_type value);
```

The `operator""` is a special operator that indicates a user-defined literal. `suffix_name` is the custom suffix that will be used, and `parameter_type` is the type of the literal passed to the user-defined literal. The `return_type` can be any valid C++ type.

## Example

Suppose we have a class called `Distance` which represents a distance value and we want to define a user-defined literal to convert meters to `Distance` objects. The user-defined literal can be defined as follows:

```cpp
class Distance {
    // class implementation
};

Distance operator"" _m(long double value) {
    return Distance(value);
}
```

In this example, `operator"" _m` is the user-defined literal for meters. It takes a `long double` parameter, representing the value in meters, and returns a `Distance` object.

After defining this user-defined literal, we can create `Distance` objects using the custom suffix as follows:

```cpp
auto d = 10.5_m; // creates a Distance object representing 10.5 meters
```

## Restrictions

- User-defined literals must begin with an underscore `_` followed by lowercase letters, e.g., `_m`, `_km`, etc.
- User-defined literals cannot be defined for built-in types like `int` or `double`.
- User-defined literals cannot have default arguments.

User-defined literals provide a powerful mechanism for creating more expressive and readable code. They enable the customization of literal constants for user-defined types, ultimately leading to more natural and intuitive syntax.

For more details on user-defined literals, please refer to the [C++ Standard](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/user_literal).