---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee ManyToManyField 관계 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

Peewee is a simple and lightweight Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for Python. It provides a convenient way to interact with databases using Python classes and objects. One of the powerful features of Peewee is its ability to handle Many-to-Many relationships between tables.

In this blog post, we will explore how to set up and use the `ManyToManyField` in Peewee to define and work with Many-to-Many relationships in our database models.

## Setting up `ManyToManyField`

To begin with, let's assume we have two tables in our database: `User` and `Group`. We want to establish a Many-to-Many relationship between these two tables, where a user can belong to multiple groups and a group can have multiple users.

We start by defining two Peewee models for each table:

```python
from peewee import Model, CharField, ManyToManyField, SqliteDatabase

database = SqliteDatabase('mydatabase.db')

class User(Model):
    name = CharField()
    
    class Meta:
        database = database

class Group(Model):
    name = CharField()
    members = ManyToManyField(User)
    
    class Meta:
        database = database
```

In the above code, we imported the necessary classes from Peewee and created a `SqliteDatabase` object to connect to our database.

We then defined the `User` and `Group` models, which inherit from the `Model` class provided by Peewee. Each model represents a table in our database, and the fields within each model define the columns of the table.

The `User` model has a single field, `name`, which is of type `CharField`. The `Group` model also has a `name` field, but it also includes a `members` field of type `ManyToManyField` that establishes the Many-to-Many relationship between `User` and `Group`.

## Working with `ManyToManyField`

Now that we have defined the models, let's see how we can work with the `ManyToManyField` in our Python code.

### Adding Members to a Group

To add a user to a group, we simply append the user object to the `members` field of the group object:

```python
# Creating a user and a group
user = User(name="John Doe")
group = Group(name="Admins")

# Adding the user to the group
group.members.add(user)
```

### Retrieving Members of a Group

To retrieve the members of a group, we can access the `members` field of the group object:

```python
# Retrieving the members of a group
members = group.members

# Iterating over the members
for member in members:
    print(member.name)
```

### Querying Groups of a User

To query for the groups a user belongs to, we can use the `groups` attribute of the user object:

```python
# Retrieving the groups of a user
groups = user.groups

# Iterating over the groups
for group in groups:
    print(group.name)
```

### Removing Members from a Group

To remove a user from a group, we can use the `remove` method of the `members` field:

```python
# Removing a user from a group
group.members.remove(user)
```

## Conclusion

Peewee's `ManyToManyField` allows us to easily define and work with Many-to-Many relationships in our database models. It provides a straightforward way to add, retrieve, and remove members from a group.

In this blog post, we explored the setup and usage of the `ManyToManyField` in Peewee by creating a Many-to-Many relationship between a `User` and `Group` model. However, Peewee offers much more functionality and flexibility for working with databases in Python. I encourage you to dive deeper into Peewee's documentation to explore all it has to offer.

Happy coding!