---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] wxPython `wx.DatePickerCtrl`: 날짜 선택기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [wxPython]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore the usage of the **wxPython `wx.DatePickerCtrl`** widget in Python. The **`wx.DatePickerCtrl`** is a date picker control that allows users to select a specific date from a graphical calendar.

## Installation

To use the **wxPython** library, you first need to install it. You can do this by running the following command:

```
pip install -U wxPython
```

## Creating a `wx.DatePickerCtrl`

To create a date picker control, we need to import the **wxPython** library and the required classes:

```python
import wx
import wx.adv
```

Next, we can create an instance of the **`wx.DatePickerCtrl`** class:

```python
app = wx.App()
frame = wx.Frame(None, title="Date Picker Demo")
panel = wx.Panel(frame)

datepicker = wx.adv.DatePickerCtrl(panel, style=wx.adv.DP_DROPDOWN)

frame.Show()
app.MainLoop()
```

In the above code, we create a simple wxPython application with a frame and a panel. Within the panel, we create an instance of the **`wx.DatePickerCtrl`** class with the **`DP_DROPDOWN`** style. This style shows a drop-down calendar for date selection.

## Getting the Selected Date

To retrieve the selected date from the **`wx.DatePickerCtrl`**, we can use the **`GetValue()`** method:

```python
selected_date = datepicker.GetValue()
```

The **`GetValue()`** method returns a `wx.DateTime` object representing the selected date.

## Setting the Initial Date

To set an initial date for the **`wx.DatePickerCtrl`**, we can use the **`SetValue(date)`** method. Here's an example:

```python
initial_date = wx.DateTime.Now()
datepicker.SetValue(initial_date)
```

In the above code, we use the **`Now()`** method from the **`wx.DateTime`** class to get the current date and time. We then set it as the initial value for the date picker control.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored the usage of the **wxPython `wx.DatePickerCtrl`** widget in Python. We learned how to create a date picker control, get the selected date, and set an initial date. The **`wx.DatePickerCtrl`** is a useful tool for allowing users to select dates with ease in a graphical interface.

If you want to learn more about the capabilities of the **wxPython** library, you can visit the official documentation [here](https://wxpython.org/).

Thank you for reading!