---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] pyautogui 마우스와 키보드 이벤트 로깅"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [pyautogui]
comments: true
share: true
---

PyAutoGUI is a Python module that allows us to programmatically control the mouse and keyboard. In addition to its core functionalities, PyAutoGUI also provides a way to log mouse and keyboard events. This feature can be quite useful when we want to collect data or debug our code.

In this blog post, we'll explore how to log mouse and keyboard events using PyAutoGUI in Python.

## Installation

Before we can start using PyAutoGUI, we need to install it. You can install it using pip by running the following command:

```
pip install pyautogui
```

## Logging Mouse Events

To log mouse events, we need to use the `pyautogui.displayMousePosition()` function. This function will continuously print the current mouse position to the console.

Here's an example of how to use it:

```python
import pyautogui

# Start logging mouse events
pyautogui.displayMousePosition()
```

When you run this code, you will see the current mouse position printed to the console. Move your mouse around, and you will see the position being updated in real-time. Press `Ctrl+C` to stop logging the mouse events.

## Logging Keyboard Events

To log keyboard events, we need to use the `pyautogui.KEYBOARD_KEYS` attribute to access the list of available keyboard keys. We can then listen for keyboard events using the `keyboard` module from the `pynput` library.

Here's an example of how to log keyboard events:

```python
import pyautogui
from pynput import keyboard

# Define the callback function for keyboard events
def on_press(key):
    try:
        # Print the key code when a key is pressed
        print('Key pressed: {0}'.format(key.char))
    except AttributeError:
        # Print special keys when a key is pressed
        print('Key pressed: {0}'.format(key))

# Start logging keyboard events
with keyboard.Listener(on_press=on_press) as listener:
    listener.join()
```

In this example, we import the `keyboard` module from the `pynput` library and define a callback function called `on_press` that will be called whenever a key is pressed. The function checks if the pressed key is a special key or a regular alphanumeric key and prints the corresponding information.

Run this code and press keys on your keyboard. You will see the pressed key information printed to the console. Press `Ctrl+C` to stop logging the keyboard events.

## Conclusion

Logging mouse and keyboard events using PyAutoGUI can be extremely helpful when developing automation scripts, testing user interactions, or collecting data for analysis. By using the `displayMousePosition()` function and the `pynput` library, we can easily log mouse and keyboard events in our Python applications.

Remember to install PyAutoGUI and the `pynput` library before running the examples in this blog post. Happy logging!