---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Beautiful Soup 4 `next_sibling` 및 `previous_sibling` 사용하기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [beautiful soup]
comments: true
share: true
---

When web scraping with Beautiful Soup 4, you often come across situations where you need to navigate through the HTML structure. The `next_sibling` and `previous_sibling` methods in Beautiful Soup 4 allow you to access the next and previous siblings, respectively, of a given HTML element.

## Understanding Siblings
In an HTML document, siblings are elements that share the same parent. For example, consider the following HTML code:

```html
<div>
    <p>Paragraph 1</p>
    <p>Paragraph 2</p>
    <p>Paragraph 3</p>
</div>
```

In this case, the three `<p>` elements are siblings because they all reside inside the same parent `<div>` element.

## Using `next_sibling`
The `next_sibling` method in Beautiful Soup 4 allows you to access the next sibling of an HTML element. To use it, you first need to select an element using one of Beautiful Soup's selector methods (e.g., `find` or `find_all`). Let's see an example:

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

html = '''
<div>
    <p>Paragraph 1</p>
    <p>Paragraph 2</p>
    <p>Paragraph 3</p>
</div>
'''

soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'html.parser')
paragraph_1 = soup.find('p', string='Paragraph 1')

next_sibling = paragraph_1.next_sibling
print(next_sibling)
```

In this example, we select the first `<p>` element with the text "Paragraph 1". The `next_sibling` method returns the next sibling, which, in this case, is the second `<p>` element with the text "Paragraph 2". The output will be:

```
<p>Paragraph 2</p>
```

## Using `previous_sibling`
Similarly, the `previous_sibling` method allows you to access the previous sibling of an HTML element. Let's modify the previous example to demonstrate this:

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

html = '''
<div>
    <p>Paragraph 1</p>
    <p>Paragraph 2</p>
    <p>Paragraph 3</p>
</div>
'''

soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'html.parser')
paragraph_3 = soup.find('p', string='Paragraph 3')

previous_sibling = paragraph_3.previous_sibling
print(previous_sibling)
```

In this case, we select the last `<p>` element with the text "Paragraph 3". The `previous_sibling` method returns the previous sibling, which, in this case, is the second `<p>` element with the text "Paragraph 2". The output will be:

```
<p>Paragraph 2</p>
```

## Conclusion
The `next_sibling` and `previous_sibling` methods in Beautiful Soup 4 provide a convenient way to navigate through the HTML structure and access the adjacent siblings of a given HTML element. By understanding these methods, you can enhance your web scraping capabilities and extract the desired data from complex HTML documents.