---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 데이터 저장: CSV 포맷"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we'll explore how to save data obtained using the `requests-html` library in Python to a CSV format. `requests-html` is a powerful library that allows us to easily scrape and parse HTML pages.

## Installation

Before we get started, make sure you have `requests-html` installed. You can install it using `pip`:

```python
pip install requests-html
```

## Importing necessary libraries

To begin with, let's import the required libraries:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession
import csv
```

We'll be using the `HTMLSession` class from `requests-html` to create an object for making HTTP requests.

## Making a request

Let's start by making a request to a webpage using the `HTMLSession` object. We'll then extract some data from the page.

```python
session = HTMLSession()
response = session.get('http://example.com')
```

This code creates an `HTMLSession` object and makes a `GET` request to `http://example.com`. You can replace the URL with the webpage you want to scrape.

## Scraping data

Now, let's assume that we want to scrape some data from the webpage and save it in a CSV file. In this example, we'll scrape a table that contains information about books.

```python
# Find the table element
table = response.html.find('table')[0]

# Extract table headers
headers = [header.text for header in table.find('th')]

# Extract table rows
rows = []
for row in table.find('tr'):
    data = [cell.text for cell in row.find('td')]
    rows.append(data)
```

In this code snippet, we use the `find` method to locate the table element in the HTML response. Then, we iterate over the table rows, extracting the data from each cell and storing it in a list of lists called `rows`. We also extract the table headers and store them in the `headers` list.

## Writing data to a CSV file

To write the scraped data to a CSV file, we'll use the `csv` module in Python.

```python
filename = 'books.csv'

with open(filename, 'w', newline='') as csvfile:
    writer = csv.writer(csvfile)
    writer.writerow(headers)  # Write headers to CSV
    writer.writerows(rows)    # Write rows to CSV
```

Here, we open a new file called `books.csv` in write mode and create a `csv.writer` object. We then write the headers to the CSV file using `writerow` and write the rows to the CSV file using `writerows`.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to use the `requests-html` library to scrape data from a webpage and save it in a CSV format. We covered making a request, extracting data from an HTML table, and writing the data to a CSV file in Python.

Please note that web scraping should be done responsibly and with the permission of the website owner. Always refer to the website's terms of service and be mindful of the impact your scraping may have on the website's server.