---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Kivy `Spinner` 위젯"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Kivy]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore the Kivy `Spinner` widget in Python. The `Spinner` widget is used to display a drop-down menu of selectable items.

## Introduction to the `Spinner` Widget

The `Spinner` widget in Kivy provides a way to present a list of options to the user. It allows the user to select a single option from the list by expanding and collapsing the drop-down menu. The selected item is displayed as the default text in the collapsed state.

## Usage of the `Spinner` Widget

To use the `Spinner` widget in your Kivy application, you will need to import it from the `kivy.uix.spinner` module. Here is an example of how to use `Spinner` in a simple Kivy application:

```python
from kivy.app import App
from kivy.uix.spinner import Spinner

class MySpinnerApp(App):
    def build(self):
        spinner = Spinner(
            text='Select an option',
            values=('Option 1', 'Option 2', 'Option 3')
        )
        return spinner

if __name__ == '__main__':
    MySpinnerApp().run()
```

In the above code, we import the `Spinner` widget from the `kivy.uix.spinner` module. Inside the `build` method of our `MySpinnerApp` class, we create an instance of the `Spinner` widget, set the initial text value to `"Select an option"`, and provide a tuple of values for the drop-down menu.

## Handling Selection Events

Often, we need to perform some action or update the UI when the user selects an option from the `Spinner`. To handle selection events, you can bind a callback function to the `on_text` event of the `Spinner`. Here's an example of how to handle the selection event:

```python
def on_spinner_select(spinner, text):
    print(f"Selected option: {text}")

spinner.bind(on_text=on_spinner_select)
```

In the above code snippet, we define a callback function `on_spinner_select` that takes two arguments: `spinner` (the instance of the `Spinner` widget) and `text` (the selected text from the drop-down menu). Inside the callback function, we simply print the selected option.

## Customizing the Appearance

The appearance of the `Spinner` widget can be customized to match the design of your application. You can modify properties such as color, background, font size, etc., to make it visually appealing. Kivy provides a wide range of properties that can be modified to customize the `Spinner`. Refer to the [official Kivy documentation](https://kivy.org/doc/stable/api-kivy.uix.spinner.html) for a complete list of available properties.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored the Kivy `Spinner` widget and learned how to use it to present a drop-down menu of selectable options in a Python application. We also discussed handling selection events and customizing the appearance of the `Spinner` widget. With this knowledge, you can enhance the user experience of your Kivy applications by incorporating the `Spinner` widget. Happy coding!