---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] SQLAlchemy 연관된 객체의 쿼리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [SQLAlchemy]
comments: true
share: true
---

SQLAlchemy is a powerful and popular Object Relational Mapper (ORM) library for Python. One of its key features is its ability to handle relationships between different database tables through its *relationship* feature. In this blog post, we will explore how to query related objects using SQLAlchemy.

## Setting up the Database Models

To get started, let's define two database models: `User` and `Post`. Each `User` can have multiple `Post` objects associated with them. Let's see an example:

```python
from sqlalchemy import Column, Integer, String, ForeignKey
from sqlalchemy.orm import relationship
from sqlalchemy.ext.declarative import declarative_base

Base = declarative_base()

class User(Base):
    __tablename__ = 'users'
    id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True)
    name = Column(String)
    posts = relationship('Post', backref='user')

class Post(Base):
    __tablename__ = 'posts'
    id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True)
    title = Column(String)
    content = Column(String)
    user_id = Column(Integer, ForeignKey('users.id'))
```

In this example, the `User` model has a *one-to-many* relationship with the `Post` model. This is defined using the `relationship` function with the `backref` argument, which allows us to access the associated `Post` objects from a `User` object.

## Querying Related Objects

Once we have defined our models and set up the database, we can start querying related objects using SQLAlchemy. Let's explore some common scenarios:

### Querying a User's Posts

To retrieve all the `Post` objects associated with a specific `User`, we can use the `user.posts` attribute. Here's an example:

```python
user = session.query(User).first()
posts = user.posts
for post in posts:
    print(post.title)
```

In this example, `user.posts` returns a list of all the associated `Post` objects for the given `User`. We can then iterate over this list and access the properties of each `Post`, such as `title` or `content`.

### Querying Related Objects with Filters

We can also apply filters when querying related objects. Let's say we want to retrieve all the `Post` objects with a specific title that belong to a given `User`. Here's an example:

```python
user = session.query(User).first()
filtered_posts = user.posts.filter(Post.title == 'SQLAlchemy Tutorial')
for post in filtered_posts:
    print(post.title)
```

In this example, we first retrieve a `User` object and then apply a filter on the `posts` relationship using the `filter` method. We specify our filter criteria using SQLAlchemy's syntax - `Post.title == 'SQLAlchemy Tutorial'`. The resulting `filtered_posts` will only contain the `Post` objects with the specified title.

### Eager Loading Related Objects

By default, when we query a `User` object, SQLAlchemy retrieves only the basic information from the database and defers loading the related `Post` objects until it's accessed. However, we can use eager loading to fetch the related objects immediately. Here's an example:

```python
user = session.query(User).options(joinedload(User.posts)).first()
```

In this example, we use the `joinedload` method to specify that we want to eagerly load the `posts` relationship when querying a `User` object. This can improve performance when we know we will be accessing the related objects later in our code.

## Conclusion

Querying related objects in SQLAlchemy is a powerful feature that allows us to easily work with complex database relationships. By leveraging the `relationship` function and various querying techniques, we can efficiently retrieve and manipulate related objects in our Python applications.

In this blog post, we explored some common use cases for querying related objects using SQLAlchemy. Hopefully, this gives you a good starting point to dive deeper into the world of SQLAlchemy and its advanced querying capabilities.