---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee Conditional inserts 및 updates"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

Peewee is a simple yet powerful object-relational mapping (ORM) library for Python. It provides a convenient way to interact with relational databases using a simple and expressive syntax. In this blog post, we will explore how to perform conditional inserts and updates using Peewee.

## Conditional Inserts

Sometimes, we want to insert a record into a database only if certain conditions are met. Peewee provides a method called `get_or_create()` that can be used for this purpose. This method tries to retrieve a record from the database based on the specified conditions. If the record exists, it is returned; otherwise, a new record is created.

Here is an example of how to use `get_or_create()`:

```python
from peewee import *

db = SqliteDatabase('mydatabase.db')

class Person(Model):
    name = CharField()
    age = IntegerField()

    class Meta:
        database = db

db.create_tables([Person])

person, created = Person.get_or_create(name='John', age=25)
```

In the above code, we define a `Person` model with two fields: `name` and `age`. We then use `get_or_create()` to retrieve a `Person` record with the specified `name` and `age` from the database. If the record exists, it is assigned to the variable `person`, and the variable `created` is set to `False`. If the record doesn't exist, a new record is created with the specified values, assigned to `person`, and `created` is set to `True`.

## Conditional Updates

In addition to conditional inserts, Peewee also provides a way to perform conditional updates. This can be done using the `update()` method, which allows you to update records in the database based on specified conditions.

Here is an example of how to use the `update()` method:

```python
from peewee import *

db = SqliteDatabase('mydatabase.db')

class Person(Model):
    name = CharField()
    age = IntegerField()

    class Meta:
        database = db

db.create_tables([Person])

Person.update(age=Person.age + 1).where(Person.name == 'John').execute()
```

In the above code, we use the `update()` method to increment the `age` field of all `Person` records with the name 'John' by 1. The `execute()` method executes the update query.

## Conclusion

Peewee provides an easy and intuitive way to perform conditional inserts and updates in Python. The `get_or_create()` method allows you to insert a record only if it doesn't already exist, while the `update()` method allows you to update records based on specified conditions. These features make Peewee a powerful tool for working with databases in Python.