---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 페이지 인코딩"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

When working with web scraping or web crawling, you may encounter web pages with different encodings. **[Requests-HTML](https://github.com/psf/requests-html)** is a powerful Python library that combines the functionality of **[requests](https://requests.readthedocs.io/en/master/)** and **[beautifulsoup4](https://beautiful-soup-4.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)**, making it easy to retrieve website content and parse it.

In this blog post, we will explore how to handle 페이지 인코딩 (page encoding) using the Requests-HTML library. Let's get started!

## Installation

To begin, make sure you have **pip** installed and run the following command in your terminal to install Requests-HTML:

```python
pip install requests-html
```

## Retrieving Web Page Content

First, let's import the necessary module and create an instance of the **HTMLSession** class from requests_html:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession

session = HTMLSession()
```

Now, we can use the **get()** method to retrieve the HTML content of a web page. Let's consider an example where we want to retrieve the contents of the **https://example.com** page:

```python
url = 'https://example.com'
response = session.get(url)
```

## Handling 페이지 인코딩

By default, Requests-HTML automatically detects the encoding of the web page using the **charset** parameter from the HTTP response headers. However, in some cases, the detected encoding may be incorrect, resulting in garbled or unreadable characters.

To handle 페이지 인코딩 manually, we can access the **encoding** attribute of the response object and set it to the desired encoding. For example, if we know that the web page is encoded in UTF-8, we can manually set the encoding as follows:

```python
response.encoding = 'utf-8'
```

This will ensure that the retrieved content is correctly decoded using the specified encoding.

## Parsing HTML Content

Once we have successfully retrieved the web page content, we can parse it using the powerful parsing capabilities of Requests-HTML. We can access the parsed HTML using the **html** attribute of the **response** object:

```python
parsed_html = response.html
```

From here, we can use the various methods provided by Requests-HTML, such as **find()** or **find_all()**, to extract specific elements from the HTML page.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to handle 페이지 인코딩 when using the Requests-HTML library in Python. We learned how to retrieve web page content, manually set the encoding, and parse the HTML content.

Requests-HTML provides a convenient and easy-to-use interface for handling web page encoding, allowing you to extract data from web pages encoded in different formats.

If you want to dive deeper into the capabilities of Requests-HTML, make sure to check out its **[official documentation](https://requests-html.kennethreitz.org/)**.

Happy scraping!