---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee Date 및 Time fields 활용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use **Date** and **Time** fields in Peewee, a simple yet powerful Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for Python. Peewee makes it easy to work with databases, including handling various types of data fields, such as dates and times.

## Setting up Peewee

Before diving into date and time fields, let's quickly go over how to set up Peewee and connect it to a database.

First, install the Peewee library by running the following command:

```python
pip install peewee
```

Next, import the necessary modules and set up a database connection:

```python
from peewee import *
db = SqliteDatabase('mydatabase.db')
```

Replace `'mydatabase.db'` with the path and name of your database file.

## Using the DateField

The **DateField** in Peewee allows us to store and manipulate dates in our database. Let's say we have a `Person` model that has a `birth_date` field:

```python
class Person(Model):
    name = CharField()
    birth_date = DateField()

    class Meta:
        database = db
```

To create a new `Person` and save it to the database, we can use the `create` method:

```python
Person.create(name='John Doe', birth_date=date(1990, 1, 1))
```

Note that we need to import the `date` class from the `datetime` module to create a `date` object.

To query for `Person` records based on their birth dates, we can use the `where` method:

```python
query = Person.select().where(Person.birth_date == date(1990, 1, 1))
```

This will return all `Person` records with a birth date of January 1, 1990.

## Using the TimeField

Similarly, Peewee provides a **TimeField** to store and manipulate time values. Let's add a `meeting_time` field to our `Person` model:

```python
class Person(Model):
    name = CharField()
    birth_date = DateField()
    meeting_time = TimeField()

    class Meta:
        database = db
```

To create a new `Person` and set their meeting time, we can use the `create` method:

```python
Person.create(name='John Doe', birth_date=date(1990, 1, 1), meeting_time=time(9, 30))
```

Here, we import the `time` class from the `datetime` module to create a `time` object.

To query for `Person` records based on their meeting times, we can use the `where` method:

```python
query = Person.select().where(Person.meeting_time >= time(9, 0), Person.meeting_time <= time(10, 0))
```

This will return all `Person` records with a meeting time between 9:00 AM and 10:00 AM.

## Conclusion

Peewee's **DateField** and **TimeField** make it easy to work with dates and times in your database using Python. By leveraging these fields, you can store, query, and manipulate temporal data with ease. Peewee's simplicity and flexibility make it a great choice for working with databases in Python.

To learn more about Peewee and its various features, check out the [official documentation](http://docs.peewee-orm.com/en/latest/index.html).

Happy coding!