---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] wxPython `wx.StatusBar`: 상태바"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [wxPython]
comments: true
share: true
---

The status bar is an important part of any graphical user interface. It provides useful information to the user about the current state of the application or any ongoing processes. In wxPython, we can easily create and manage a status bar using the `wx.StatusBar` class.

## Creating a wxPython status bar

To create a status bar in wxPython, we need to follow a few steps. Let's see how it's done:

1. Import the necessary modules:
```python
import wx
```

2. Create a `wx.Frame` instance:
```python
app = wx.App()
frame = wx.Frame(None, title="wxPython StatusBar Example")
```

3. Create a `wx.StatusBar` object using the frame as the parent:
```python
status_bar = frame.CreateStatusBar()
```

## Displaying messages in the status bar

Once the status bar is created, we can display messages or information to the user. The status bar is divided into multiple sections called "fields". By default, the status bar has one field. Let's see how we can display a message in the status bar:

```python
status_bar.SetStatusText("Ready")
```

The above code will set the text "Ready" in the default field of the status bar. We can also specify which field to update by providing the field index as the second argument:

```python
status_bar.SetStatusText("Processing...", 0)
```

In this case, we are setting the text "Processing..." in the first field of the status bar.

## Customizing the status bar

We can customize the status bar by adding more fields and changing their sizes. Let's see how we can add multiple fields to the status bar:

```python
status_bar.SetFieldsCount(3)
```

The above code sets the number of fields in the status bar to 3. We can also set the width of each field using the `SetStatusWidths` method:

```python
status_bar.SetStatusWidths([-1, 100, 150])
```

In this example, the first field will take up the remaining width, the second field will be 100 pixels wide, and the third field will be 150 pixels wide.

## Conclusion

The status bar is a useful widget in GUI applications that provides important information to the user. In wxPython, we can easily create and manage a status bar using the `wx.StatusBar` class. We learned how to create a status bar, display messages, and customize its appearance. With this knowledge, you can now enhance the user experience of your wxPython applications by adding a status bar.

Remember to check out the [wxPython documentation](https://docs.wxpython.org/) for more information and examples on the various features provided by `wx.StatusBar`. Happy coding!