---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 데이터 저장: XML 포맷"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to save data obtained using the `requests-html` library in XML format using Python. `requests-html` is a powerful Python library that allows you to easily scrape websites and extract data.

For this example, let's assume we have already installed `requests-html` using `pip`. If you haven't installed it yet, you can do so by running the following command:

```
pip install requests-html
```

Let's get started with an example. 

First, let's import the necessary libraries and create an instance of the `HTMLSession` class from `requests-html`:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession

session = HTMLSession()
```

Next, we will use the `get` method of the session object to send a GET request to a webpage and extract the HTML content:

```python
url = "https://example.com"

response = session.get(url)
```

Now that we have obtained the HTML content, we can search for specific elements using CSS selectors:

```python
# Extract all the paragraphs from the webpage
paragraphs = response.html.find("p")

# Extract the text content of the first paragraph
first_paragraph = paragraphs[0].text
```

With the data extracted, we can now save it in XML format. For this purpose, we will use the `xml.etree.ElementTree` module:

```python
import xml.etree.ElementTree as ET

# Create a root element for the XML document
root = ET.Element("data")

# Create a child element for the first paragraph text
paragraph_element = ET.SubElement(root, "paragraph")
paragraph_element.text = first_paragraph
```

We can add more elements to the XML document if desired. Once we have added all the necessary data, we can save it to a file using the `ElementTree` API:

```python
# Create an ElementTree object
tree = ET.ElementTree(root)

# Save the XML document to a file
tree.write("data.xml", encoding="utf-8", xml_declaration=True)
```

And that's it! We have successfully saved the extracted data in XML format. You can now view the contents of the `data.xml` file.

To summarize, in this blog post, we have explored how to use the `requests-html` library to scrape data from a webpage and save it in XML format using Python. This technique can be useful when you want to organize and store structured data obtained from web scraping activities. Feel free to experiment and extend the example to suit your specific use case.