---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee와 SQLite 활용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

Peewee is a lightweight object-relational mapping (ORM) library for Python that provides a simple and intuitive way to interact with databases. In this blog post, we will explore how to use Peewee with SQLite, one of the most popular relational database management systems (RDBMS).

## Prerequisites

Before we start, make sure you have the following installed:

- Python 3.x
- SQLite

## Installation

To install Peewee, open your command prompt and run the following command:

```
pip install peewee
```

## Setting up a SQLite database

First, create a new Python file and import the necessary modules:

```python
from peewee import *
```

Next, let's define our database and create a connection to our SQLite file-based database:

```python
database = SqliteDatabase('mydatabase.db')
```

## Defining a model

Now, let's define a model for our database. A model represents a table in the database and the fields/columns it contains. To define a model, create a new class that inherits from `peewee.Model`:

```python
class User(Model):
    name = CharField()
    age = IntegerField()
    email = CharField(unique=True)

    class Meta:
        database = database
```

In the example above, we've defined a `User` model with three fields: `name`, `age`, and `email`. We've also specified that the `email` field should be unique.

## Creating tables

Before we can start using our database, we need to create the necessary tables. To create the tables, we can use the `create_tables` method provided by Peewee:

```python
database.create_tables([User])
```

This will create the `User` table in our SQLite database.

## Inserting data

Now, let's insert some data into our `User` table:

```python
user = User(name='John Doe', age=25, email='john@example.com')
user.save()
```

In the example above, we've created a new `User` instance and called the `save` method to insert it into the database.

## Querying data

To fetch data from the database, we can use the `select` method:

```python
users = User.select()
for user in users:
    print(user.name)
```

In the example above, we've selected all users from the `User` table and printed their names.

## Updating data

To update existing data in the database, we can use the `update` method:

```python
user = User.get(User.name == 'John Doe')
user.age = 30
user.save()
```

In the example above, we've fetched the `User` with the name 'John Doe' and updated the `age` field to 30.

## Deleting data

To delete data from the database, we can use the `delete_instance` method:

```python
user = User.get(User.name == 'John Doe')
user.delete_instance()
```

In the example above, we've fetched the `User` with the name 'John Doe' and deleted it from the database.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have explored how to use Peewee with SQLite in Python. We learned how to define models, create tables, insert, query, update, and delete data using Peewee's expressive API. Peewee simplifies the process of working with databases, making it easier and more intuitive to interact with SQLite and other RDBMS in Python applications.