---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee Full-text search 기능"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

Peewee is a lightweight and expressive Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for Python. It provides an easy and elegant way to interact with databases, but one feature that is often overlooked is its built-in full-text search capability.

In this blog post, we will explore how to use Peewee's full-text search functionality to perform powerful and efficient text searches in your Python applications.

## Setting Up Peewee

To get started, we need to install Peewee. You can install it using pip:

```
$ pip install peewee
```

Once installed, we can import it in our Python script:

```python
from peewee import *
```

## Enabling Full-text Search

Peewee provides the `Match` operator to perform full-text searches. To enable full-text search in your Peewee model, you need to define a `ts_vector` column in your database table.

Here's an example of a Peewee model that includes a `ts_vector` column:

```python
from peewee import *

database = SqliteDatabase('my_database.db')

class MyModel(Model):
    title = CharField()
    content = TextField()
    ts_vector = TSVectorField()

    class Meta:
        database = database
```

In the above example, the `ts_vector` column is of type `TSVectorField`. This column will store the preprocessed text data for full-text search.

## Indexing Text Data

Before we can perform a full-text search, we need to index our text data. This is done by creating a trigger that updates the `ts_vector` column whenever the model is saved or updated.

Here's an example of how to create a trigger to index the text data in our `MyModel` table:

```python
database.execute_sql('''
    CREATE TRIGGER tsvectorupdate BEFORE INSERT OR UPDATE
    ON mymodel FOR EACH ROW EXECUTE PROCEDURE
    tsvector_update_trigger(ts_vector, 'pg_catalog.english', title, content)
''')
```

In the above example, we create a trigger called `tsvectorupdate` that will update the `ts_vector` column using the `tsvector_update_trigger` function. We pass the `ts_vector` column and the text columns `title` and `content` as arguments.

## Performing Full-text Search

Once we have indexed our text data, we can perform full-text searches using the `Match` operator in Peewee.

Here's an example of how to perform a full-text search for the term "python" in our `MyModel` table:

```python
search_term = 'python'
results = MyModel.select().where(MyModel.ts_vector.match(search_term))
```

In the above example, we use the `match` method of the `ts_vector` column to perform the full-text search. The `match` method takes the search term as an argument.

## Conclusion

Peewee's built-in full-text search functionality provides a convenient way to perform efficient and powerful text searches in your Python applications. By indexing your text data and using the `Match` operator, you can easily implement full-text search capabilities in your Peewee models.

In this blog post, we discussed how to enable full-text search in Peewee, index text data, and perform full-text searches using the `Match` operator. Give it a try and enhance the search capabilities of your Python applications with Peewee!