---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Scrapy 스크린샷 캡처"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Scrapy]
comments: true
share: true
---

Scrapy is a powerful web scraping framework that allows developers to extract data from websites. One useful feature of Scrapy is its ability to capture screenshots of web pages. In this blog post, we will explore how to use Scrapy to capture screenshots in Python.

## Installing Scrapy
To get started, we first need to install Scrapy. You can do this by running the following command in your command prompt or terminal:

```
pip install Scrapy
```

Make sure you have Python and pip installed on your system before running this command.

## Creating a Scrapy Project
Once Scrapy is installed, let's create a new Scrapy project. Open your command prompt or terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to create the project. Then, run the following command:

```
scrapy startproject screenshot_project
```

This will create a new directory called `screenshot_project` with the basic structure of a Scrapy project.

## Writing the Spider
Next, let's create a spider to scrape the web page and capture a screenshot. In the `spiders` directory of your project, create a new Python file called `screenshot_spider.py`. Open the file and add the following code:

```python
import scrapy
from scrapy_screenshot import ScreenshotMiddleware

class ScreenshotSpider(scrapy.Spider):
    name = "screenshot"

    def start_requests(self):
        urls = [
            'https://www.example.com',
        ]
        for url in urls:
            yield scrapy.Request(url=url, callback=self.parse)

    def parse(self, response):
        # Get the current URL
        url = response.url

        # Capture the screenshot
        yield scrapy.Request(url=url, callback=self.save_screenshot)

    def save_screenshot(self, response):
        # Save the screenshot as a file
        filename = response.url.split("/")[-2] + '.png'
        with open(filename, 'wb') as f:
            f.write(response.body)
        self.log('Saved screenshot as {}'.format(filename))
```

In this spider, we define a `start_requests` method that generates the URLs we want to scrape. We then define a `parse` method that captures the screenshot and calls the `save_screenshot` method.

The `save_screenshot` method saves the screenshot as a file using the URL as the filename.

## Configuring Scrapy Settings
To enable the screenshot capturing functionality, we need to configure Scrapy settings. Open the `settings.py` file in your project and add the following lines:

```python
DOWNLOADER_MIDDLEWARES = {
    'scrapy_screenshot.middleware.ScreenshotMiddleware': 600,
}

SCRAPERPROXY_ENABLED = False
```

The `ScreenshotMiddleware` is a middleware that captures the screenshots. We set its priority to 600. The `SCRAPERPROXY_ENABLED` setting is optional and is used to disable the use of proxy servers.

## Running the Spider
To run the spider and capture the screenshots, navigate to your project's directory in the command prompt or terminal and run the following command:

```
scrapy crawl screenshot
```

Scrapy will start crawling the URLs specified in the `start_requests` method of the spider and capture screenshots of the web pages.

## Conclusion
In this blog post, we have explored how to use Scrapy to capture screenshots in Python. We started by installing Scrapy and creating a new Scrapy project. Then, we wrote a spider to scrape the web page and capture a screenshot. Finally, we configured Scrapy settings and ran the spider. Scrapy's built-in screenshot capturing functionality makes it easy to automate the task of capturing web page screenshots.