---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] PyQt 콤보 박스 (`QComboBox`) 위젯"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,PyQt]
comments: true
share: true
---

The `QComboBox` widget in PyQt is a dropdown list or a combo box that allows users to select an option from a predefined list. It is widely used in graphical user interface (GUI) applications to provide a user-friendly way of selecting options. In this blog post, we will explore how to use the `QComboBox` widget in Python with the PyQt library.

## Installation

Before we dive into using `QComboBox`, we need to make sure that PyQt is installed on our system. You can install it using pip:

```python
pip install pyqt5
```

## Creating a `QComboBox` widget

To create a `QComboBox` widget, we first need to import the necessary modules:

```python
from PyQt5.QtWidgets import QApplication, QWidget, QComboBox
from PyQt5.QtCore import Qt
```

Then, we can create a `QComboBox` instance by inheriting from the `QComboBox` class:

```python
app = QApplication([])
window = QWidget()

combobox = QComboBox(window)
```

The `QComboBox` widget needs to be placed inside a parent widget, in this case, our parent widget is `window`.

## Adding options to `QComboBox`

The next step is to add options to the `QComboBox` widget. We can accomplish this by using the `addItem` method:

```python
combobox.addItem('Option 1')
combobox.addItem('Option 2')
combobox.addItem('Option 3')
```

Each call to `addItem` adds a new option to the combo box.

## Handling the selection

To handle the user's selection, we can connect the `currentIndexChanged` signal of the `QComboBox` to a callback function. For example:

```python
def handle_selection(index):
    selected_option = combobox.itemText(index)
    print(f'Selected option: {selected_option}')

combobox.currentIndexChanged.connect(handle_selection)
```

The `handle_selection` function takes the index of the selected item as a parameter. We can use the `itemText` function to retrieve the text of the selected item.

## Setting the default selection

By default, the first item in the `QComboBox` is selected. However, we can set a different default selection using the `setCurrentIndex` method. For example:

```python
combobox.setCurrentIndex(1)
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use the `QComboBox` widget in PyQt to create dropdown lists with selectable options. We learned how to add options to the combobox, handle the user's selection, and set a default selection. The `QComboBox` widget is a powerful tool in building user-friendly GUI applications in Python with PyQt.

Happy coding!