---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] PyQt 탭 (`QTabWidget`) 위젯"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [PyQt]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use the PyQt `QTabWidget` widget in Python. The `QTabWidget` provides a tabbed interface, allowing users to switch between different panels or views within an application.

## Installation

Before we can start using PyQt and `QTabWidget`, we need to make sure that we have it installed. You can install PyQt using pip with the following command:

```python
pip install pyqt5
```

## Creating a Basic `QTabWidget`

To create a basic `QTabWidget` in PyQt, we first need to import the necessary modules and create a new instance of the `QTabWidget` class:

```python
from PyQt5.QtWidgets import QApplication, QMainWindow, QTabWidget, QWidget

app = QApplication([])
window = QMainWindow()

tab_widget = QTabWidget()
window.setCentralWidget(tab_widget)
```

In the code snippet above, we import `QApplication`, `QMainWindow`, `QTabWidget`, and `QWidget` from the `PyQt5.QtWidgets` module. We then create an instance of the `QApplication` class and `QMainWindow` class. Next, we create a `QTabWidget` instance and set it as the central widget of the main window using the `setCentralWidget()` method.

## Adding Tabs to the `QTabWidget`

To add tabs to the `QTabWidget`, we create instances of `QWidget` as the content of each tab and use the `addTab()` method to add them to the tab widget:

```python
tab1 = QWidget()
tab2 = QWidget()

tab_widget.addTab(tab1, "Tab 1")
tab_widget.addTab(tab2, "Tab 2")
```

In the example above, we create two instances of `QWidget` as the content for each tab. We then use the `addTab()` method of the `QTabWidget` to add these tabs, specifying the tab widget and the name for each tab.

## Customizing the Tab Appearance

We can also customize the appearance of the tabs by setting properties such as the tab position, tab shape, and tab text alignment. Here's an example of how to set the tab position to be on the left side:

```python
tab_widget.setTabPosition(QTabWidget.West)
```

And here's an example of how to set the tab shape to be rounded:

```python
tab_widget.setTabShape(QTabWidget.Rounded)
```

Additionally, if you want to change the alignment of the tab text, you can use the `setTabTextAlignment()` method. By default, the text is aligned to the center. Here's an example of how to align the text to the left:

```python
tab_widget.setTabTextAlignment(Qt.AlignmentFlag.AlignLeft)
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to use the `QTabWidget` widget in PyQt to create a tabbed interface in Python. We saw how to create a basic `QTabWidget`, add tabs to it, and customize its appearance. With the `QTabWidget`, you can create a versatile UI with multiple panels or views that can be easily switched between by the user.

Stay tuned for more PyQt tutorials and happy coding!