---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 사용자 지정 헤더 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

When making HTTP requests in Python, the `requests` library is a popular choice. However, for more advanced use cases, you might want to customize the headers of your requests. This can be done easily with the `requests-html` library, an extension of `requests` that provides additional features for parsing HTML content.

In this blog post, we will explore how to set custom headers using `requests-html` in Python.

## Installation

Before we start, make sure you have `requests-html` installed. You can do this by running the following command:

```python
pip install requests-html
```

Once installed, we can import the necessary modules and get started.

## Setting Custom Headers

To set custom headers using `requests-html`, we need to create an instance of `HTMLSession` and pass the desired headers as a dictionary to the `headers` parameter.

Here's an example that demonstrates how to set a custom user-agent header:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession

# Create an instance of HTMLSession
session = HTMLSession()

# Define custom headers
headers = {
    'User-Agent': 'My Custom User Agent'
}

# Set the headers for the session
session.headers.update(headers)

# Make a request using the session
response = session.get('https://www.example.com')

# Print the response content
print(response.html)
```

In the above example, we imported `HTMLSession` from `requests_html` and created an instance called `session`. We then defined a dictionary called `headers`, with the key being `'User-Agent'` and the value being `'My Custom User Agent'`. We used the `update` method on the `headers` attribute of the session to set the custom headers.

Finally, we made an HTTP GET request using the `get` method of the session, passing the desired URL as an argument. The response is printed to the console.

## Conclusion

Setting custom headers in `requests-html` is straightforward and allows you to customize your HTTP requests according to your needs. Whether you want to change the user-agent or any other aspect of the request headers, `requests-html` provides an easy way to do so.

Remember to explore the official `requests-html` documentation for more information on its capabilities and additional features that can enhance your web scraping and parsing tasks.