---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 태그의 속성에 접근하기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

When scraping websites using Python, the `requests-html` library is a popular choice among developers. It provides a convenient way to make HTTP requests and parse HTML content. One common task when scraping websites is accessing the attributes of HTML tags. In this blog post, we will explore how to access the attributes of HTML tags using `requests-html` in Python.

## Installation

Before we begin, let's make sure we have `requests-html` installed. You can install it using `pip`:

```
pip install requests-html
```

## Importing the necessary modules

To start working with `requests-html`, we need to import the required modules. Open a new Python file and add the following import statement:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession
```

## Making a request

Now let's create a session object from `HTMLSession`. This object allows us to send HTTP requests and retrieve HTML content. We can use the `get()` method to send a GET request to a website. For example, let's scrape the HTML content of the Python website:

```python
session = HTMLSession()
response = session.get('https://www.python.org')
```

## Accessing tag attributes

Once we have the HTML content, we can access the attributes of HTML tags. The `requests-html` library provides a convenient way to do this using the `.find()` method. Let's say we want to access the `href` attribute of all the `<a>` tags in the HTML content. We can do it like this:

```python
links = response.html.find('a')
for link in links:
    href = link.attrs['href']
    print(href)
```

In the above code, we are using the `.find()` method to find all the `<a>` tags. Then, in the loop, we are accessing the `href` attribute of each `<a>` tag using the `attrs` property. Finally, we are printing the `href` attribute.

We can also access other attributes like `class`, `id`, etc., using the same syntax.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have learned how to access tag attributes using the `requests-html` library in Python. With this knowledge, you can now scrape websites and extract data by accessing the attributes of HTML tags. Happy web scraping!

Remember to always respect website owners' terms of service and use web scraping responsibly.