---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 페이지 내 검색 기능 사용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use the **requests-html** library in Python to search for specific content within a web page. The **requests-html** library is a powerful tool that allows us to make HTTP requests and parse HTML content easily.

## Installing requests-html

First, we need to install the **requests-html** library. Open your terminal or command prompt and run the following command:

```shell
pip install requests-html
```

## Making a HTTP request and parsing HTML

To start, let's import necessary modules and create an instance of the **HTMLSession** class from the **requests_html** module:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession

session = HTMLSession()
```

We can now make a request to a web page and retrieve its HTML content. For example, let's search for the latest news on Python from the Python.org website:

```python
response = session.get('https://www.python.org/')
html_content = response.text
``` 

## Searching for specific content

Now that we have the HTML content, we can use the **html.find()** method to search for specific elements within the page. This method takes a CSS selector as an argument and returns a list of matching elements.

For example, let's say we want to find all the links on the Python.org homepage:

```python
links = html_content.find('a')
for link in links:
    print(link.text)
```

We can also search for content based on attributes. Let's say we want to find all the images with the `src` attribute on the page:

```python
images = html_content.find('img[src]')
for image in images:
    print(image.attrs['src'])
```

### Advanced searching

The **find()** method provides various options to refine the search. Here are a few examples:

- Select by class: `html_content.find('.classname')`
- Select by id: `html_content.find('#idname')`
- Select by attribute value: `html_content.find('[attribute=value]')`

For more information on advanced searching options, refer to the [Beautiful Soup documentation](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/#css-selectors).

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have seen how to use the **requests-html** library to make HTTP requests and search for specific content within a web page. The combination of **requests** and **requests-html** provides a powerful and convenient way to scrape and extract information from websites.