---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee Custom Middleware 개발"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

Peewee is a lightweight and expressive **Python** **ORM** (Object-Relational Mapping) library for interacting with **SQL** databases. It provides a convenient way to work with databases in a **Pythonic** manner. One of the powerful features of Peewee is the ability to create custom **middlewares** for database operations.

In this blog post, we will explore how to develop custom middleware in Peewee to add additional functionality to our database interactions.

## What is Middleware?

Middleware is a software component that sits between the application and the database. It intercepts the **query execution** and allows you to **modify** or **enhance** the behavior of database operations. With middleware, you can perform tasks such as **logging**, **caching**, **authentication**, or any other operations needed before or after the execution of a query.

## Creating a Custom Middleware in Peewee

To create a custom middleware in Peewee, we need to define a class that extends the `peewee.DatabaseMiddleware` class and overrides its relevant methods. Let's see a simple example of a middleware that logs the executed queries:

```python
import logging
from peewee import *

class QueryLoggingMiddleware(DatabaseMiddleware):
    def __init__(self, *args, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(*args, **kwargs)
        self.logger = logging.getLogger('peewee')
  
    def execute_sql(self, sql, params=None, commit=True):
        self.logger.info(f'Executing query: {sql} with params: {params}')
        return super().execute_sql(sql, params, commit)
```

In the example above, we create a class called `QueryLoggingMiddleware` that extends `DatabaseMiddleware`. We override the `execute_sql` method to log the executed query along with its parameters using the `logging` module.

## Adding Middleware to Peewee

To use our custom middleware in Peewee, we need to attach it to our `Database` object. Here's an example of how to do it:

```python
import logging
from peewee import *

db = SqliteDatabase('mydatabase.db')

# Attach custom middleware
db.middleware(QueryLoggingMiddleware())

# Define Model and perform queries
class User(Model):
    username = CharField()
    email = CharField(unique=True)

    class Meta:
        database = db

# Perform database operations
db.connect()
db.create_tables([User])

# Insert a new user
new_user = User.create(username='john', email='john@example.com')

# Select all users
users = User.select()

# Disconnect from the database
db.close()
```

In the code above, we first create an instance of our `SqliteDatabase`. Then, we attach our custom middleware `QueryLoggingMiddleware` to the database using the `middleware()` method.

After that, we define our `User` model and perform some database operations like creating tables, inserting a new user, and selecting all users. Finally, we disconnect from the database.

## Conclusion

Peewee's custom middleware feature allows us to extend the functionality of database operations easily. By creating our own middleware classes, we can add additional functionality to our database interactions, such as logging, caching, or authentication.

In this blog post, we learned how to create a custom middleware in Peewee and how to attach it to a `Database` object. We also saw a simple example of a middleware that logs executed queries using the `logging` module.

Feel free to explore Peewee's documentation for more advanced middleware features and use cases. Happy coding with Peewee!