---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] `Kivy` 커스텀 이벤트 생성"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Kivy]
comments: true
share: true
---

Kivy is an open-source Python framework for developing multitouch applications. It provides a wide range of tools and functionalities for creating interactive and visually appealing user interfaces. One of the key features of Kivy is the ability to handle events and user interactions. While Kivy provides several built-in events, there may be cases where you want to create your own custom events.

In this blog post, we will explore how to create custom events in Kivy using Python. We will walk through an example to illustrate the process step by step.

## Step 1: Importing the necessary modules
Firstly, we need to import the necessary modules from Kivy:

```python
from kivy.app import App
from kivy.uix.button import Button
from kivy.event import EventDispatcher
from kivy.properties import BooleanProperty, ObjectProperty
```

## Step 2: Creating a custom event class
Next, we will create a custom event class by inheriting from the `EventDispatcher` class:

```python
class CustomEvent(EventDispatcher):
    my_event = BooleanProperty(False)
    my_data = ObjectProperty(None)
```

In this example, we have defined a custom event called `my_event`, which is of type `BooleanProperty`. We have also defined a property called `my_data`, which is of type `ObjectProperty`.

## Step 3: Dispatching the custom event
Now, we can use the custom event in our application. Let's create a simple Kivy app with a button that will dispatch our custom event:

```python
class MyApp(App):
    def __init__(self, **kwargs):
        super().__init__(**kwargs)
        self.custom_event = CustomEvent()

    def on_custom_event(self):
        print("Custom event triggered!")

    def build(self):
        btn = Button(text='Click me!')
        btn.bind(on_release=lambda instance: setattr(self.custom_event, 'my_event', True))
        btn.bind(on_release=lambda instance: setattr(self.custom_event, 'my_data', 'Custom data'))
        btn.bind(on_release=lambda instance: self.custom_event.dispatch('on_custom_event'))
        return btn

if __name__ == '__main__':
    MyApp().run()
```

In this code, we create an instance of our custom event class `CustomEvent` in the `MyApp` class. We then define an `on_custom_event` method that will be called when the custom event is triggered. Inside the `build` method, we create a button and bind the `on_release` event to set the `my_event` property of our custom event to `True`, set the `my_data` property to "Custom data", and dispatch the custom event.

## Step 4: Handling the custom event
To handle the custom event, we need to bind a callback function to it. In our example, we have defined the `on_custom_event` method in the `MyApp` class as the callback function. This method will be called when the custom event is dispatched:

```python
def on_custom_event(self):
    print("Custom event triggered!")
```

In this example, we simply print a message when the custom event is triggered. However, you can perform any desired actions in the callback function based on your application's requirements.

## Conclusion
Creating custom events in Kivy allows you to extend the functionality of your application and handle user interactions in a more flexible way. By following the steps outlined in this blog post, you can easily create and dispatch custom events in Kivy using Python. Experiment with different event types and properties to add interactivity to your Kivy applications.