---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] PyQt 메뉴바와 툴바"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,PyQt]
comments: true
share: true
---

PyQt is a powerful Python library for creating graphical user interfaces (GUIs). It provides various classes and functions to develop feature-rich desktop applications. In this blog post, we will explore how to create a **menu bar** and **toolbar** using PyQt in Python.

## Setting up the environment

Before we start, make sure you have PyQt installed. You can install it using pip:

```python
pip install pyqt5
```

Now that we have PyQt installed, let's dive into creating our menu bar and toolbar.

## Creating a Menu Bar

A menu bar is a horizontal bar that contains menus. Each menu can have multiple actions or sub-menus associated with it. Here's an example of how to create a basic menu bar:

```python
import sys
from PyQt5.QtWidgets import QApplication, QMainWindow, QMenuBar, QAction

class MainWindow(QMainWindow):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()

        menubar = self.menuBar()
        
        file_menu = menubar.addMenu('File')
        edit_menu = menubar.addMenu('Edit')
        help_menu = menubar.addMenu('Help')

        self.setWindowTitle('PyQt Menu Bar Example')
        self.setGeometry(300, 300, 500, 400)

app = QApplication(sys.argv)
window = MainWindow()
window.show()

sys.exit(app.exec_())
```

In this example, we create an instance of `QMainWindow`, which provides a framework for building the main window of an application. We then create a **menu bar** using the `menuBar()` method. We use the `addMenu()` method to add menus to the menu bar.

## Creating a Toolbar

A toolbar is a horizontal or vertical bar that contains tools or actions. Tools can be buttons, checkboxes, comboboxes, etc. Here's an example of how to create a basic toolbar:

```python
import sys
from PyQt5.QtWidgets import QApplication, QMainWindow, QAction, QToolBar

class MainWindow(QMainWindow):
    def __init__(self):
        super().__init__()

        toolbar = self.addToolBar('Main Toolbar')

        new_action = QAction('New', self)
        save_action = QAction('Save', self)
        exit_action = QAction('Exit', self)

        toolbar.addAction(new_action)
        toolbar.addAction(save_action)
        toolbar.addSeparator()
        toolbar.addAction(exit_action)

        self.setWindowTitle('PyQt Toolbar Example')
        self.setGeometry(300, 300, 500, 400)

app = QApplication(sys.argv)
window = MainWindow()
window.show()

sys.exit(app.exec_())
```

In this example, we create a **toolbar** using the `addToolBar()` method. We then create instances of `QAction` to represent the tools or actions in the toolbar. We add the actions to the toolbar using the `addAction()` method. The `addSeparator()` method adds a separator between the actions.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to create a menu bar and toolbar using PyQt in Python. We explored the basic code examples to create and populate menus in a menu bar, as well as adding tools to a toolbar. PyQt provides many more options and functionalities to customize the menu bar and toolbar, so be sure to check the official documentation for more information.

PyQt is a versatile library that allows developers to create interactive and user-friendly GUIs. Learning how to utilize the menu bar and toolbar is a crucial step in developing professional-looking applications.