---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Beautiful Soup 4 웹 스크레이핑 스케줄링"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Beautiful Soup]
comments: true
share: true
---

Web scraping is a popular technique used to extract data from websites. It allows you to automate the process of gathering information from multiple web pages and save time and effort. In this blog post, we will explore how to perform web scraping using Beautiful Soup 4, a powerful Python library for parsing HTML and XML documents.

## Installing Beautiful Soup 4

Before we dive into web scraping, let's first install Beautiful Soup 4. You can install it using pip, the package installer for Python:

```python
pip install beautifulsoup4
```

Once installed, we can begin our web scraping journey!

## Understanding the Basics of Beautiful Soup

Before we start scraping websites, it's essential to understand the basics of Beautiful Soup.

Beautiful Soup is a Python library that makes it easy to navigate, search, and modify the parse tree of an HTML or XML document. It provides a convenient way to extract data from HTML/XML tags and their attributes.

To get started with Beautiful Soup, we need to import the library and initialize it with an HTML/XML document. Here's an example:

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

# Create a BeautifulSoup object by parsing an HTML document
soup = BeautifulSoup(html_doc, 'html.parser')
```

The `html_doc` variable contains the HTML document you want to scrape. You can pass a string or a file-like object to the `BeautifulSoup` constructor.

## Scraping Websites Using Beautiful Soup

Now that we have a basic understanding of Beautiful Soup, let's dive into web scraping using this powerful library.

Step 1: Fetch the Web Page

To scrape a website, we need to fetch the web page first. We can use various Python libraries like `requests` or `urllib` to download the HTML content of a webpage. Here's an example using the `requests` library:

```python
import requests

# Fetch the web page
url = 'https://www.example.com'
response = requests.get(url)

# Get the HTML content
html_content = response.text
```

Step 2: Create a Beautiful Soup Object

Once we have the HTML content, we can create a Beautiful Soup object and parse the HTML document. Here's an example:

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

# Create a BeautifulSoup object by parsing the HTML content
soup = BeautifulSoup(html_content, 'html.parser')
```

Step 3: Extract Information from the Web Page

Now that we have a Beautiful Soup object, we can extract information from the web page. We can use a variety of methods provided by Beautiful Soup to navigate and search through the parse tree.

For example, to extract all the links from a web page, we can use the `find_all` method:

```python
# Find all the links in the web page
links = soup.find_all('a')

# Print the links
for link in links:
    print(link['href'])
```

Step 4: Write the Scraped Data

Finally, we can write the scraped data to a file or store it in a database for further analysis. Here's an example of writing the extracted links to a file:

```python
# Write the links to a file
with open('links.txt', 'w') as f:
    for link in links:
        f.write(link['href'] + '\n')
```

## Scheduling Web Scraping Jobs

Now that we know how to scrape websites using Beautiful Soup, we can schedule our scraping tasks to run at specific intervals automatically. This can be achieved by using Python libraries like `schedule` or `APScheduler`.

Here's an example of how to schedule a web scraping task using the `schedule` library:

```python
import schedule
import time

def scrape_website():
    # Your web scraping code here
    pass

# Schedule the web scraping task to run every 24 hours
schedule.every(24).hours.do(scrape_website)

while True:
    schedule.run_pending()
    time.sleep(1)
```

In this example, the `scrape_website` function contains your web scraping code. We use the `schedule` library to schedule the task to run every 24 hours. The `run_pending` method checks if there are any scheduled tasks that need to be executed.

## Conclusion

Web scraping is an essential skill for data gathering and analysis. By using Beautiful Soup 4, we can easily parse HTML and XML documents and extract valuable information from websites. Furthermore, by scheduling web scraping tasks, we can automate the process and save time.

In this blog post, we covered the basics of Beautiful Soup 4 and how to perform web scraping using this library. We also explored how to schedule web scraping tasks using Python libraries like `schedule` or `APScheduler`.

I hope you found this guide helpful in your web scraping endeavors. Happy scraping!