---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Beautiful Soup 4 `children` 및 `descendants` 속성 사용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Beautiful Soup]
comments: true
share: true
---

Beautiful Soup is a powerful Python library for web scraping. It allows you to extract data from HTML and XML documents in an intuitive and convenient way. One of the key features of Beautiful Soup is the ability to navigate and search through the parsed document using various methods and attributes.

In this blog post, we will focus on two important attributes in Beautiful Soup 4: `children` and `descendants`. These attributes provide us with different ways to access and manipulate the elements within an HTML/XML document.

## `children` 속성

The `children` attribute is used to access the direct children of an element. It returns a generator object that yields the immediate children elements of the given element.

Here's an example to demonstrate its usage:

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

html = """
<html>
  <body>
    <div>
      <h1>Beautiful Soup 4</h1>
      <p>A Python library for web scraping</p>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
"""

soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'html.parser')
div_element = soup.find('div')

for child in div_element.children:
    print(child)
```

In the above example, we have an HTML document with a `div` element containing an `h1` and a `p` element. We use the `find` method to locate the `div` element and then iterate over its `children`. The output of the above code will be:

```
<h1>Beautiful Soup 4</h1>
<p>A Python library for web scraping</p>
```

As you can see, the `children` attribute only returns the immediate children elements of the given element.

## `descendants` 속성

The `descendants` attribute is used to access all the descendants of an element, recursively. It returns a generator object that yields all the descendants of the given element.

Here's an example to demonstrate its usage:

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

html = """
<html>
  <body>
    <div>
      <h1>Beautiful Soup 4</h1>
      <p>A Python library for web scraping</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Easy to use</li>
        <li>Flexible</li>
        <li>Powerful</li>
      </ul>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
"""

soup = BeautifulSoup(html, 'html.parser')
div_element = soup.find('div')

for descendant in div_element.descendants:
    print(descendant)
```

In the above example, we have an HTML document with a nested structure. The `div` element contains an `h1`, `p`, and `ul` element, and the `ul` element contains `li` elements. We use the `find` method to locate the `div` element and then iterate over its `descendants`. The output of the above code will be:

```
<h1>Beautiful Soup 4</h1>
Beautiful Soup 4
<p>A Python library for web scraping</p>
A Python library for web scraping
<ul>
<li>Easy to use</li>
<li>Flexible</li>
<li>Powerful</li>
</ul>
<li>Easy to use</li>
Easy to use
<li>Flexible</li>
Flexible
<li>Powerful</li>
Powerful
```

As you can see, the `descendants` attribute returns all the descendants of the given element, including the nested elements.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have explored two important attributes in Beautiful Soup 4: `children` and `descendants`. These attributes provide us with different ways to access and manipulate the elements within an HTML/XML document. By leveraging these attributes, we can easily navigate the parsed document and extract the desired information for our web scraping tasks.