---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] PyQt 테이블 뷰 (`QTableView`) 및 테이블 모델"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,PyQt]
comments: true
share: true
---

PyQt is a powerful Python library for creating desktop applications with a graphical interface. One of the key components in PyQt is the `QTableView`, which provides a powerful and flexible way to display and interact with tabular data. In this blog post, we will explore how to use the `QTableView` and how to create a table model in Python.

## What is a `QTableView`?

The `QTableView` widget is a container for displaying and editing complex data sets in a tabular format. It provides a convenient way to view and manipulate data in a spreadsheet-like manner. The `QTableView` can be customized to display data in different ways, including sorting, searching, and filtering.

## Creating a `QTableView`

To create a `QTableView` in PyQt, you first need to import the necessary modules:

```python
from PyQt5.QtWidgets import QApplication, QMainWindow, QTableView
from PyQt5.QtCore import Qt
```

Then, you can create an instance of `QTableView`:

```python
app = QApplication([])
window = QMainWindow()
table_view = QTableView()
window.setCentralWidget(table_view)
window.show()
app.exec()
```

In the code above, we create a `QApplication` instance, create a main window (`QMainWindow`), create a `QTableView` instance, set the `QTableView` as the central widget of the main window, and finally, show the main window.

## Creating a Table Model

A table model is a class that provides the data for the `QTableView`. It is responsible for retrieving and updating the data to be displayed in the table. PyQt provides the `QAbstractTableModel` class as a base class for creating custom table models. Let's create a simple table model that displays a 3x3 grid of numbers:

```python
from PyQt5.QtCore import QAbstractTableModel, QVariant

class MyTableModel(QAbstractTableModel):
    def __init__(self, data):
        super().__init__()
        self.data = data

    def rowCount(self, parent):
        return len(self.data)

    def columnCount(self, parent):
        return len(self.data[0])

    def data(self, index, role):
        if role == Qt.DisplayRole:
            return str(self.data[index.row()][index.column()])
        return QVariant()
```

In the code above, we create a subclass of `QAbstractTableModel` called `MyTableModel`. We override the `rowCount` and `columnCount` methods to specify the number of rows and columns in our data. We also override the `data` method to provide the data to be displayed in the table. The `Qt.DisplayRole` role is used to specify that we want to display the data.

## Setting the Table Model

To set the table model for our `QTableView`, we can simply create an instance of our `MyTableModel` class and pass it to the `setModel` method of the `QTableView`:

```python
data = [
    [1, 2, 3],
    [4, 5, 6],
    [7, 8, 9]
]

model = MyTableModel(data)
table_view.setModel(model)
```

In the code above, we create a `data` list with some sample data. We then create an instance of `MyTableModel` with the `data` and set it as the model for our `QTableView`.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use the PyQt `QTableView` widget to display tabular data in a graphical interface. We also learned how to create a custom table model to provide the data for the `QTableView`. With PyQt and `QTableView`, you have the power to create dynamic and interactive tables in your Python applications.

I hope you found this blog post helpful! Feel free to leave your comments and questions below.