---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] PyQt `QPrintDialog`와 인쇄 관리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [PyQt]
comments: true
share: true
---

PyQt is a popular Python binding for the Qt application framework, which allows developers to create powerful and intuitive graphical user interfaces. One of the common tasks in creating GUI applications is handling printing functionality. In this blog post, we will explore how to use the PyQt `QPrintDialog` class to manage printing in our Python applications.

## The `QPrintDialog` Class

The `QPrintDialog` class is a pre-defined dialog class provided by PyQt that allows users to select printing options for a document. It provides a standard user interface that includes options like printer selection, page range, and number of copies.

To use `QPrintDialog`, we first need to import the required classes from the PyQt library:

```python
from PyQt5.QtWidgets import QApplication, QMainWindow, QTextEdit, QAction, QPrintDialog
```

Next, we set up a basic PyQt application window with some placeholder content:

```python
app = QApplication([])
window = QMainWindow()
text_edit = QTextEdit()

window.setCentralWidget(text_edit)
window.show()
app.exec_()
```

Once we have our application window set up, we can create an instance of `QPrintDialog`:

```python
print_dialog = QPrintDialog()
```

## Executing the Print Dialog

The `QPrintDialog` class provides a method called `exec_()` that allows us to execute the dialog and capture the user's input. We can use this method to open the print dialog and fetch the chosen printing options:

```python
if print_dialog.exec_() == QPrintDialog.Accepted:
    # User clicked on Print button
    printer = print_dialog.printer()
    # Retrieve the selected printer
    print_options = print_dialog.printerOptions()
    # Retrieve the selected printing options

    # Code to handle printing goes here
```

In the code above, we check if the user clicked on the "Print" button by comparing the return value of the `exec_()` method with `QPrintDialog.Accepted`. If the condition is satisfied, we retrieve the selected printer and printing options using the respective methods provided by the `QPrintDialog` class.

## Printing with `QPrinter`

To actually perform the printing, we need to work with the `QPrinter` class. This class represents the printer and provides methods to configure various printing properties. Here's an example of how to configure the `QPrinter` object using the printer and options obtained from the `QPrintDialog`:

```python
printer.setPrinterName(printer.printerName())
# Set the printer name
printer.setPageLayout(print_options.pageLayout())
# Set the page layout
printer.setPrintRange(print_options.printRange())
# Set the print range
printer.setNumCopies(print_options.numCopies())
# Set the number of copies

# Additional configuration options can be set here
```

Once the `QPrinter` object is configured, we can use it to print our content. Here's an example of how to print the contents of a `QTextEdit` widget:

```python
text_edit.print_(printer)
```

In the code above, the `print_()` method of the `QTextEdit` class is called with the `QPrinter` object as an argument.

## Conclusion

The PyQt `QPrintDialog` class provides a convenient way to manage printing functionality in our Python applications. By using this class, we can allow users to choose printing options, such as printer selection and page range, and easily perform printing tasks. With PyQt and `QPrintDialog`, creating powerful and customizable printing features in our applications becomes effortless.