---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Pyramid와 Heroku 연동"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [pyramid]
comments: true
share: true
---

Pyramid is a powerful and flexible web framework for building complex web applications in Python. Heroku, on the other hand, is a popular platform as a service (PaaS) that allows developers to deploy and manage their applications easily.

In this blog post, I will show you how to integrate Pyramid with Heroku, so you can deploy your Pyramid web application on Heroku and take advantage of its scalability and ease of deployment.

**Prerequisites:**
Before we start, make sure you have the following prerequisites:
- Basic knowledge of Python and Pyramid
- A Heroku account
- Heroku CLI (Command Line Interface) installed on your machine

**Step 1: Set up your Pyramid project**
Assuming you already have a Pyramid project created, navigate to the root directory of your project. If you don't have a project yet, you can create one using the Pyramid scaffold command:

```python
$ pcreate -s starter myproject
```

**Step 2: Create a Heroku application**
Go to the Heroku website and log in to your account. Once you're logged in, create a new application from the Heroku dashboard. Give your application a name and select the appropriate region.

**Step 3: Add a Heroku-specific configuration file**
In the root directory of your Pyramid project, create a new file called `Procfile` (with no file extension). Inside the `Procfile`, add the following line:

```
web: gunicorn myproject:main
```

This `Procfile` tells Heroku to use the Gunicorn web server to run your Pyramid application.

**Step 4: Create a requirements.txt file**
In the root directory of your project, create a file called `requirements.txt`. This file should contain all the Python packages required by your Pyramid application. For example:

```
pyramid
gunicorn
```

Make sure to include any other dependencies your project may have.

**Step 5: Initialize a git repository**
Run the following commands in your project directory to initialize a git repository and add all files to the repository:

```python
$ git init
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Initial commit"
```

**Step 6: Connect your Heroku application to the git repository**
Go back to the Heroku dashboard and navigate to your application. Under the "Deploy" tab, you will find the "Deployment method" section. Choose "GitHub" as the deployment method and connect your Heroku application to your git repository.

**Step 7: Deploy your application**
Once your Heroku application is connected to your git repository, you can deploy your Pyramid application by pushing your code to the Heroku remote repository. Run the following command in your project directory:

```python
$ git push heroku master
```

This will deploy your application to Heroku and start the Gunicorn web server.

**Step 8: Access your deployed application**
After the deployment is complete, Heroku will provide you with a URL where your application is accessible. You can find this URL under the "Settings" tab of your Heroku application. Simply copy and paste the URL into your browser to access your deployed Pyramid application.

Congratulations! You have successfully integrated Pyramid with Heroku. Now you can enjoy the benefits of deploying your Pyramid web application on Heroku's scalable platform.

Happy coding!