---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] tkinter 스피너(`Spinbox`) 위젯"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,tkinter]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore the `Spinbox` widget in the `tkinter` library of Python. The `Spinbox` widget allows the user to select a value from a predefined range by spinning through the available options.

## Creating a Spinbox widget
To create a `Spinbox` widget, we first need to import the `tkinter` module:

```python
import tkinter as tk
```

Next, we can create an instance of the main `Tk` class and then add the `Spinbox` widget to our window:

```python
window = tk.Tk()

spinbox = tk.Spinbox(window, from_=0, to=10)
spinbox.pack()

window.mainloop()
```

In the above code snippet, we set the `from_` parameter to specify the minimum value of the `Spinbox` and the `to` parameter to specify the maximum value. We then add the `Spinbox` widget to the window using the `pack()` method.

## Configuring the Spinbox widget
We can customize the appearance and behavior of the `Spinbox` widget by using various configuration options provided by `tkinter`. Some of the commonly used options include:

- `values`: Instead of providing a range, we can specify a list of values for the `Spinbox` widget.
- `increment`: We can control the increment or decrement step while spinning through the values.
- `state`: We can set the state of the `Spinbox` to `'readonly'` to prevent the user from typing a value manually.
- `width`: We can specify the width of the `Spinbox` widget.

Here's an example of creating a `Spinbox` widget with different configuration options:

```python
spinbox = tk.Spinbox(window, values=("Red", "Green", "Blue"))
spinbox.pack()

spinbox2 = tk.Spinbox(window, from_=0, to=100, increment=5)
spinbox2.pack()

spinbox3 = tk.Spinbox(window, state='readonly', width=10)
spinbox3.pack()
```

In the code above, the first `Spinbox` widget is configured with a list of possible values, the second one increments by 5, and the third one is set to a read-only state with a width of 10.

## Retrieving the selected value
To retrieve the selected value from the `Spinbox`, we can use the `.get()` method. Here's an example:

```python
selected_value = spinbox.get()
print(selected_value)
```

In this code snippet, `selected_value` will contain the currently selected value from the `Spinbox`. 

## Conclusion
In this blog post, we learned about the `Spinbox` widget in `tkinter`, which allows users to select values from a predefined range. We explored how to create a `Spinbox` widget, customize its appearance and behavior, and retrieve the selected value. The `Spinbox` widget is a useful tool for user input in GUI applications, especially when a limited set of options is available.

To dive deeper into the `Spinbox` widget and other functionalities offered by `tkinter`, I encourage you to check out the official [tkinter documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/tkinter.html).