---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Kivy `BoxLayout` 배치"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,Kivy]
comments: true
share: true
---

In Kivy, the `BoxLayout` class is used to arrange widgets in either a horizontal or vertical layout. It provides a simple way to organize your UI elements in a linear fashion.

To use the `BoxLayout` class, you first need to import it from the `kivy.uix` module:

```python
from kivy.uix.boxlayout import BoxLayout
```

Next, create an instance of the `BoxLayout` class and add your widgets to it. The `BoxLayout` can be created with the parameter `orientation` set to either "horizontal" or "vertical":

```python
layout = BoxLayout(orientation='horizontal')
```

## Adding Widgets

To add widgets to the `BoxLayout`, use the `add_widget()` method. This method adds the widgets to the end of the layout, preserving their order:

```python
layout.add_widget(widget1)
layout.add_widget(widget2)
layout.add_widget(widget3)
```

## Widget Alignment

By default, the `BoxLayout` centers its children widgets along the main axis. You can adjust the alignment using the `alignment` property. The `alignment` property accepts values like "left", "right", "top", "bottom", "center", "justify", etc.

```python
layout.alignment = 'center'
```

## Spacing

The `BoxLayout` also allows you to control the spacing between its children widgets using the `spacing` property. The `spacing` property specifies the number of pixels between widgets.

```python
layout.spacing = 10
```

## Example

Here's a simple example that demonstrates the usage of `BoxLayout`:

```python
from kivy.app import App
from kivy.uix.boxlayout import BoxLayout
from kivy.uix.button import Button


class MyBoxLayout(App):
    def build(self):
        layout = BoxLayout(orientation='horizontal', spacing=10)
        button1 = Button(text='Button 1')
        button2 = Button(text='Button 2')
        button3 = Button(text='Button 3')
        layout.add_widget(button1)
        layout.add_widget(button2)
        layout.add_widget(button3)
        return layout


if __name__ == '__main__':
    MyBoxLayout().run()
```

In this example, we create a simple `App` with a `BoxLayout` containing three buttons. The `BoxLayout` is set to a horizontal orientation and each button has a spacing of 10 pixels between them.

The `BoxLayout` is a powerful layout manager that helps you create clean and organized UIs in Kivy. Experiment with different orientations, alignments, and spacings to achieve the desired layout for your application.