---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee UUIDField 활용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use the `UUIDField` in **Peewee**, a lightweight and expressive **Python ORM** (Object-Relational Mapping) library. The `UUIDField` is a field type that allows us to store and manipulate **Universally Unique Identifiers (UUIDs)** in our database models.

UUIDs are often used when we need a unique identifier that is guaranteed to be unique across different systems or instances. They are especially useful when working with distributed systems or when generating unique IDs for sensitive information.

## Installing Peewee

Before we dive into using the `UUIDField`, we need to install the Peewee library. Open up your terminal and run the following command to install Peewee using pip:

```python
pip install peewee
```

## Creating a Model with a UUIDField

Let's start by creating a simple model in Peewee that includes a `UUIDField`:

```python
from peewee import *

database = SqliteDatabase('example.db')

class User(Model):
    id = UUIDField(primary_key=True)
    name = CharField()

    class Meta:
        database = database

database.connect()
database.create_tables([User])
```

In the code above, we import the `peewee` module and create a `SqliteDatabase` instance pointing to a file called **example.db**. Then, we define a `User` model with two fields: `id` and `name`. The `id` field is of type `UUIDField` and is set as the primary key.

Finally, we connect to the database and create the necessary table(s) by calling `database.create_tables([User])`.

## Creating and Saving a User

To create and save a `User` instance with a UUID, we need to generate a UUID and assign it to the `id` field. We can use the `uuid` module from the Python standard library to generate a random UUID.

```python
import uuid

# Generate a random UUID
user_id = uuid.uuid4()

# Create and save the User instance
user = User(id=user_id, name="John Doe")
user.save()
```

In the code above, we import the `uuid` module and use the `uuid4()` function to generate a random UUID. We then create a `User` instance by passing the generated UUID and the user's name. Finally, we call the `save()` method to save the instance to the database.

## Querying for Users

We can also query the database to retrieve `User` instances based on their UUID or other criteria. The following code demonstrates how to query for all users with a specific UUID:

```python
users = User.select().where(User.id == user_id)

for user in users:
    print(user.name)
```

In the code above, we use the `select()` method to retrieve all the `User` instances from the database. We then filter the results using the `where()` method and specify the condition `User.id == user_id`. This will return all users with the specified UUID.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use the `UUIDField` in Peewee to store and manipulate UUIDs in our database models. We learned how to create a model with a `UUIDField`, generate and save a `User` instance with a UUID, and query the database for users based on their UUID.

Using UUIDs can be helpful when we need unique identifiers that are universally unique and can be generated in a distributed environment. The `UUIDField` in Peewee makes it easy to work with UUIDs in our Python applications.