---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] wxPython `wx.ToolBar`: 툴바 생성"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,wxPython]
comments: true
share: true
---

In wxPython, the `wx.ToolBar` class is widely used to create toolbars in graphical user interfaces. A toolbar is a collection of buttons, icons, and other controls that provide quick access to frequently used functions or actions. In this blog post, we will explore how to create a `wx.ToolBar` in Python using the wxPython library.

## Setting up the Environment

Before we dive into creating a toolbar, make sure you have wxPython installed. You can install it using pip with the following command:

```
pip install wxPython
```

## Creating a `wx.ToolBar` in Python

Once you have wxPython installed, you can begin creating a `wx.ToolBar`. 

First, import the necessary module:

```python
import wx
```

Next, create an instance of the wxPython application:

```python
app = wx.App()
```

Then, create a `wx.Frame` to serve as the main window:

```python
frame = wx.Frame(None, title='My Toolbar App')
```

After that, create a `wx.ToolBar` object:

```python
toolbar = frame.CreateToolBar()
```

You can add buttons, icons, and other controls to the toolbar using the `AddTool` or `AddSeparator` methods. Here's an example of adding a button to the toolbar:

```python
bitmap = wx.Bitmap('button_icon.png')
tool = toolbar.AddTool(wx.ID_ANY, 'Button', bitmap)
frame.Bind(wx.EVT_TOOL, self.on_button_click, tool)
```

In the code snippet above, we create a bitmap from an image file and use it to create a button on the toolbar. We also bind an event handler `on_button_click` to the button.

Finally, call the `Realize` method to display the toolbar:

```python
toolbar.Realize()
```

And don't forget to show the main window:

```python
frame.Show()
```

Lastly, start the wxPython event loop:

```python
app.MainLoop()
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have explored how to create a `wx.ToolBar` in Python using wxPython. Toolbars are an essential component of graphical user interfaces as they provide quick access to frequently used actions or functions. Using the `wx.ToolBar` class, you can easily create and customize toolbars to enhance the usability of your wxPython applications.

Remember to refer to the [wxPython documentation](https://docs.wxpython.org/) for more details and additional functionality of the `wx.ToolBar` class. Happy coding with wxPython!