---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee BinaryField 활용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use the **BinaryField** in [Peewee](http://docs.peewee-orm.com/) - a simple and lightweight Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library for Python.

## What is BinaryField?

In Peewee, **BinaryField** is a field type that allows us to store binary data in the database. It can be used to store various types of data, such as images, files, and serialized objects.

## Why use BinaryField?

Using **BinaryField** can be useful in many scenarios, such as:

- Storing and retrieving files or binary data directly from the database without the need for an external file system.
- Serializing complex data structures and storing them as binary data in the database, simplifying the process of saving and retrieving the data.

## Example Usage

Let's see how we can use the **BinaryField** in a Peewee model.

First, we need to define our model class. For this example, let's create a model called **BinaryData** with a **BinaryField** to store binary data:

```python
from peewee import *

# Define the database connection
database = SqliteDatabase('my_database.db')

# Define the model
class BinaryData(Model):
    data = BinaryField()

    class Meta:
        database = database
```

We have defined a model class called **BinaryData** with a single field, **data**, which is of type **BinaryField**.

Next, let's create a table in the database and insert some binary data:

```python
# Create the table
database.create_tables([BinaryData])

# Create a binary data object
binary_data = BinaryData(data=b'\x00\x01\x02\x03\x04')

# Save the binary data to the database
binary_data.save()
```

In the above example, we created a table for the **BinaryData** model using the `database.create_tables()` method. We then created an instance of the **BinaryData** model and assigned a binary data to the **data** field. Finally, we saved the binary data to the database using the `save()` method.

To retrieve the binary data from the database, we can use a simple query like this:

```python
# Retrieve the binary data from the database
retrieved_data = BinaryData.get()

print(retrieved_data.data)  # Output: b'\x00\x01\x02\x03\x04'
```

In this case, we used the `BinaryData.get()` method to retrieve the first instance of the **BinaryData** model from the database. We then accessed the **data** field to retrieve the binary data.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use the **BinaryField** in Peewee to store and retrieve binary data in the database. We saw how to define a model with a **BinaryField**, save binary data to the database, and retrieve it later. **BinaryField** can be a powerful tool when working with binary data in your Python applications.

Try experimenting with the **BinaryField** in your own projects and see how it can simplify data storage and retrieval!