---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee Custom Field 정의"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to define custom fields in Peewee, a lightweight Python Object-Relational Mapping (ORM) library.

Peewee provides a wide range of **built-in field types** such as `CharField`, `IntegerField`, `ForeignKeyField`, etc. However, there may be scenarios when these built-in fields do not fully meet our requirements. In such cases, we can define **custom fields** to handle specific data types or implement complex functionality.

To define a custom field in Peewee, we need to create a new class that inherits from `peewee.Field`. This custom field class should implement methods for serialization, deserialization, and validation.

Here's an example of how you can define a custom field for storing and working with **JSON data** using Peewee:

```python
import json
from peewee import Field


class JSONField(Field):
    """Custom field for storing JSON data."""

    def db_value(self, value):
        """Convert Python object to database value."""
        return json.dumps(value)

    def python_value(self, value):
        """Convert database value to Python object."""
        return json.loads(value)
```

In the above example, we define a `JSONField` class that inherits from `Field`. We override the `db_value` method to convert the Python object to a JSON string before storing it in the database. Similarly, we override the `python_value` method to convert the JSON string back to a Python object when retrieving data from the database.

Once we have defined the custom field, we can use it in our Peewee models like any other built-in field. Here's an example of using the `JSONField` in a Peewee model:

```python
from peewee import Model, MySQLDatabase
from playhouse.shortcuts import model_to_dict

db = MySQLDatabase('my_database', user='my_user', password='my_password')


class MyModel(Model):
    name = CharField()
    config = JSONField()

    class Meta:
        database = db
```

In the above example, we define a `MyModel` class with a `name` field of type `CharField` and a `config` field of type `JSONField`. The `config` field will be used to store JSON data in the database.

We can then work with instances of `MyModel` and access the `config` field as a Python object. Here's an example:

```python
# Create a new instance of MyModel
my_instance = MyModel(name='example', config={'key': 'value'})

# Save the instance to the database
my_instance.save()

# Retrieve the instance from the database
retrieved_instance = MyModel.get(MyModel.name == 'example')

# Access the config field as a Python object
config_data = retrieved_instance.config

# Modify the config field and save the changes
config_data['new_key'] = 'new_value'
retrieved_instance.save()
```

In the above example, we create a new instance of `MyModel` with a name and a config field containing a JSON object. We then save the instance to the database, retrieve it later, and access the `config` field as a Python object. We can modify the `config` field and save the changes back to the database.

Defining custom fields in Peewee provides flexibility and allows us to work with non-standard data types or implement specialized behavior. By subclassing `peewee.Field` and implementing the necessary methods, we can define custom fields to seamlessly integrate with our Peewee models.

Peewee documentation: [http://docs.peewee-orm.com/](http://docs.peewee-orm.com/)