---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] requests-html 링크 추출하기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,requests-html]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to extract links from web pages using the `requests-html` library in Python. The `requests-html` library is a Python library that makes it easy to scrape and interact with HTML web pages.

## Installing requests-html

Before we get started, let's make sure we have the `requests-html` library installed. We can install it using `pip` by running the following command:

```python
pip install requests-html
```

## Extracting Links

To extract links from a web page, we will use the `requests-html` library's `HTMLSession` and `Link` classes. Let's take a look at an example:

```python
from requests_html import HTMLSession

# Create an instance of HTMLSession
session = HTMLSession()

# Specify the URL of the web page to extract links from
url = "https://example.com"

# Send a GET request to the web page
response = session.get(url)

# Render the JavaScript on the page
response.html.render()

# Extract all links on the page
links = response.html.absolute_links

# Print the extracted links
for link in links:
    print(link)
```

In the above example, we first create an instance of `HTMLSession`. We then specify the URL of the web page we want to extract links from and send a GET request to that URL using the `get` method. 

After receiving the response, we render the JavaScript on the page using the `render` method. This is important because some websites may use JavaScript to dynamically generate content.

Finally, we use the `absolute_links` property of the `response.html` object to extract all links on the page. We then iterate over the links and print each one.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we have learned how to extract links from web pages using the `requests-html` library in Python. This can be useful when we want to scrape or analyze web pages for specific information or perform web scraping tasks. The `requests-html` library provides a simple and efficient way to interact with HTML web pages and retrieve useful data.