---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] wxPython `wx.Menu` & `wx.MenuBar`: 메뉴와 메뉴바"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [wxPython]
comments: true
share: true
---

Menus and menu bars are commonly used in GUI applications to provide easy access to various commands and options. They typically contain a list of items, each of which can be selected by the user to perform a specific action. 

Let's start with the `wx.Menu` class. This class represents a single menu and can contain multiple menu items. To create a menu, we first need to create an instance of the `wx.Menu` class using the `wx.Menu()` constructor:

```python
menu = wx.Menu()
```

To add menu items to the menu, we can use the `Append` method. For example, to add a simple menu item with the label "Open", we can use the following code:

```python
menu.Append(wx.ID_OPEN, "Open")
```

Here, `wx.ID_OPEN` is a predefined identifier in wxPython that represents the "Open" command. We can also add a submenu to a menu item by passing another `wx.Menu` instance as the second argument to the `Append` method:

```python
submenu = wx.Menu()
submenu.Append(wx.ID_SAVE, "Save")
menu.AppendSubMenu(submenu, "File")
```

Once we have created our menu, we can associate it with a specific window using the `SetMenuBar` method. For example, to set the menu as the menu bar of a frame, we can use the following code:

```python
frame.SetMenuBar(menuBar)
```

Now, let's move on to the `wx.MenuBar` class. This class represents a menu bar, which is typically located at the top of a window and contains multiple menus. To create a menu bar, we first need to create an instance of the `wx.MenuBar` class using the `wx.MenuBar()` constructor:

```python
menuBar = wx.MenuBar()
```

To add menus to the menu bar, we can use the `Append` method. For example, to add the previously created `wx.Menu` instance to the menu bar, we can use the following code:

```python
menuBar.Append(menu, "File")
```

Here, "File" is the label that will be displayed for the menu. 

Finally, we need to associate the menu bar with a specific window by using the `SetMenuBar` method, just like we did with the menu:

```python
frame.SetMenuBar(menuBar)
```

With these simple steps, we can create menus and menu bars in our wxPython applications to provide an intuitive and user-friendly interface.

In this blog post, we learned how to use the `wx.Menu` and `wx.MenuBar` classes in wxPython to create menus and menu bars. We saw how to create menus, add menu items, and associate them with a window. With this knowledge, you can now enhance the functionality of your wxPython applications by adding menus and menu bars to provide an efficient and user-friendly interface.