---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Beautiful Soup 4 반복적인 웹 스크레이핑 자동화"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [beautiful soup]
comments: true
share: true
---

## Introduction

Web scraping is a powerful tool for extracting data from websites. However, scraping multiple pages or performing repetitive scraping tasks can be time-consuming and tedious. This is where Beautiful Soup 4 (BS4) comes in handy. BS4 is a Python library that simplifies web scraping by providing a convenient API for parsing HTML and XML documents.

In this blog post, we will explore how to automate web scraping tasks using Beautiful Soup 4. We will learn how to scrape multiple pages and extract data using loops, making the process more efficient and less repetitive.

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this blog post, you'll need the following:

- Python installed on your machine
- Beautiful Soup 4 library installed (`pip install beautifulsoup4`)

## Scraping Multiple Pages

Often, we need to scrape data from multiple pages of a website. Manually writing scraping code for each page can be cumbersome. With BS4, we can use loops to automate the process.

Let's say we want to scrape data from a website that contains a list of products. The products are paginated, with each page containing 10 products. We can use a loop to iterate over each page and scrape the data.

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup
import requests

# URL of the website
base_url = 'https://example.com/products?page='

# Number of pages to scrape
num_pages = 5

for page in range(1, num_pages+1):
    url = base_url + str(page)
    response = requests.get(url)
    soup = BeautifulSoup(response.content, 'html.parser')
    
    # Extract data from the page
    # Your scraping code goes here
    
    # Print or store the extracted data
    # Your code to process the data goes here
```

In the above example, we define the base URL of the website and the number of pages to scrape. We then iterate over each page using a `for` loop. Inside the loop, we construct the URL for each page, send a request, and parse the HTML using Beautiful Soup.

## Extracting Data

Once we have the HTML of each page, we can use Beautiful Soup to extract the desired data. This can be done by identifying the HTML elements that contain the data and using BS4's methods and attributes to extract the values.

Let's say the product information is contained within a `<div>` element with a class name of `"product"`. We can use BS4's `find_all()` method to find all the `<div>` elements with that class and then extract the data from each element.

```python
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup

# Assuming `soup` is the parsed HTML of a page
product_divs = soup.find_all('div', class_='product')

for product_div in product_divs:
    # Extract data from the product_div
    # Your code to extract the data goes here
```

Inside the loop, you can access the individual elements of each `product_div` and extract the desired data using BS4's methods and attributes. You can use methods like `find()`, `find_all()`, `text`, `get()`, etc., depending on the structure of the HTML and the data you want to extract.

## Conclusion

Automating web scraping using Beautiful Soup 4 can save us time and effort when scraping multiple pages or performing repetitive scraping tasks. By using loops, we can easily scrape data from multiple pages of a website and extract the desired information.

Beautiful Soup 4 provides a rich set of methods and attributes that make parsing and navigating HTML documents a breeze. Combined with Python's looping capabilities, it becomes a powerful tool for automating web scraping tasks.

Happy scraping!