---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] SQLAlchemy Composite Fields"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,SQLAlchemy]
comments: true
share: true
---

In SQLAlchemy, composite fields allow us to group multiple columns together as a single unit. This can be useful in scenarios where we want to encapsulate related information and work with it as a single entity. So, instead of dealing with individual columns, we can treat them as a composite field.

### Defining a Composite Field

To define a composite field in SQLAlchemy, we need to create a custom class that inherits from the `sqlalchemy.types.TypeDecorator` class. This class provides a framework for creating custom types in SQLAlchemy.

```python
from sqlalchemy import types

class CompositeField(types.TypeDecorator):
    impl = types.String
    
    def __init__(self, field1, field2):
        self.field1 = field1
        self.field2 = field2
    
    def process_bind_param(self, value, dialect):
        if value is not None:
            return f'{value.field1}|{value.field2}'
    
    def process_result_value(self, value, dialect):
        if value is not None:
            field1, field2 = value.split('|')
            return MyCompositeField(field1=field1, field2=field2)
    
    def coerce_compared_value(self, op, value):
        return self
        
```

In this example, we've created a `CompositeField` class that combines two fields (`field1` and `field2`) into a single composite field. The `process_bind_param` method is responsible for converting the composite field into a string representation that can be stored in the database. Similarly, the `process_result_value` method converts the stored value back into a composite field object.

### Using a Composite Field

Once we have defined a composite field, we can use it in our SQLAlchemy models. Let's say we have a `User` model with a composite field `address` that consists of a `street` and `city` field.

```python
from sqlalchemy import Column, Integer, String
from sqlalchemy.ext.declarative import declarative_base

Base = declarative_base()

class User(Base):
    __tablename__ = 'users'
    
    id = Column(Integer, primary_key=True)
    name = Column(String)
    address = Column(CompositeField('street', 'city'))
    
    def __repr__(self):
        return f"<User(name='{self.name}', address='{self.address}')>"

```

In this example, the `address` column is declared as a composite field using the `CompositeField` class we defined earlier. Now, whenever we create a new `User` object, we can assign a composite field value to the `address` attribute, and SQLAlchemy will automatically handle the conversion and storage of the composite field in the database.

### Querying Composite Fields

To query composite fields in SQLAlchemy, we can use the `column` attribute of the composite field. For example, to query all users with a specific city in their address, we can use the following code:

```python
from sqlalchemy.orm import sessionmaker

Session = sessionmaker(bind=engine)
session = Session()

users = session.query(User).filter(User.address.column.field2 == 'New York').all()
```

In this example, we filter the `User` objects based on the `field2` attribute of the `address` composite field, which represents the city.

### Conclusion

SQLAlchemy composite fields provide a convenient way to work with related data as a single entity. By defining custom composite field classes, we can encapsulate multiple columns into a single field and utilize them in our SQLAlchemy models. This allows for more organized and expressive code when dealing with complex data structures.