---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee ArrayField 및 MatrixField 활용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore the usage of the `ArrayField` and `MatrixField` in Peewee, a lightweight Python ORM (Object Relational Mapping) library. These fields provide a convenient way to store and manipulate arrays and matrices within a database table.

## **ArrayField**

The `ArrayField` in Peewee allows you to store an array of values within a single column. This is useful when you have a list of values that you want to save in the database. For example, let's say you have a `User` model and want to store the user's favorite movies as an array:

```python
from peewee import *

database = SqliteDatabase('my_database.db')

class User(Model):
    name = CharField()
    favorite_movies = ArrayField(CharField)

    class Meta:
        database = database
```

To use the `ArrayField`, you need to import it from the `peewee` module. In the `User` model, we define the `favorite_movies` field as an `ArrayField` of `CharField`. This means that each element in the array will be a string.

To create a new user and store their favorite movies, you can do the following:

```python
user = User(name='John Doe', favorite_movies=['The Shawshank Redemption', 'Pulp Fiction', 'Inception'])
user.save()
```

You can also query the database based on the values in the `ArrayField`. For example, to find all users who have 'Inception' as one of their favorite movies, you can use the `contains` operator:

```python
users = User.select().where(User.favorite_movies.contains('Inception'))
```

## **MatrixField**

The `MatrixField` in Peewee is an extension of the `ArrayField` that allows you to store a two-dimensional array or matrix. This can be useful when you need to store a grid of values, such as a game board or a matrix of numbers.

To use the `MatrixField`, you first need to install the `peewee-extensions` package, which provides additional field types for Peewee:

```
pip install peewee-extensions
```

Once installed, you can use the `MatrixField` in your models. Here's an example of how you can define a `Grid` model with a `MatrixField`:

```python
from peewee import *
from peewee_extensions import MatrixField

database = SqliteDatabase('my_database.db')

class Grid(Model):
    name = CharField()
    matrix = MatrixField(IntegerField)

    class Meta:
        database = database
```

In this example, we define the `matrix` field as a `MatrixField` of `IntegerField`. This means that each element in the matrix will be an integer.

To create a new grid and store the matrix values, you can do the following:

```python
grid = Grid(name='My Grid', matrix=[[1, 2, 3], [4, 5, 6], [7, 8, 9]])
grid.save()
```

You can also query the database based on the values in the `MatrixField`. For example, to find all grids that have a value of 5 in the matrix, you can use the `contains` operator:

```python
grids = Grid.select().where(Grid.matrix.contains(5))
```

## **Conclusion**

In this blog post, we have explored how to utilize the `ArrayField` and `MatrixField` in Peewee to store and manipulate arrays and matrices in a database table. These fields provide a convenient way to work with complex data structures within your Python applications. Whether you need to store a list of values or a two-dimensional matrix, Peewee has got you covered. Happy coding!