---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Peewee Many-to-Many through models 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [Peewee]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to set up Many-to-Many relationships with through models in Peewee, a lightweight and expressive ORM for Python. 

## Background 
Many-to-Many relationships occur when multiple records in a table can correspond to multiple records in another table. In Peewee, we can define Many-to-Many relationships using an intermediary or "through" model. This through model helps establish the connection between the primary models involved in the relationship.

## Setting up the models
Let's say we have two models, `User` and `Group`. Each user can be a member of multiple groups, and each group can have multiple members. To represent this relationship, we will create a through model called `Membership`.

```python
from peewee import *

database = SqliteDatabase('my_database.db')

class User(Model):
    username = CharField(unique=True)

class Group(Model):
    name = CharField(unique=True)

class Membership(Model):
    user = ForeignKeyField(User)
    group = ForeignKeyField(Group)

    class Meta:
        database = database
```

In the above example, we define the `User`, `Group`, and `Membership` models. Each `Membership` instance will have a foreign key reference to both the `User` and `Group` models.

## Defining the Many-to-Many relationship
To set up the Many-to-Many relationship between the `User` and `Group` models, we will use the `ManyToManyField` field in the `User` model.

```python
class User(Model):
    username = CharField(unique=True)
    groups = ManyToManyField(Group, through_model=Membership)
```

In the `User` model, we add the `groups` field of type `ManyToManyField`. We specify the `Group` model as the related table and the `Membership` model as the through model.

## Querying the Many-to-Many relationship
Once the Many-to-Many relationship is established, we can easily query and access related records using Peewee's ORM capabilities.

```python
# Retrieve all groups a user is a member of
user = User.select().where(User.username == 'john').get()
groups = user.groups

# Retrieve all users in a group
group = Group.select().where(Group.name == 'developers').get()
members = group.user_set
```

With the above code snippets, we first retrieve the user or group of interest. Then, we use the `groups` or `user_set` attribute to access the related records.

## Conclusion
Many-to-Many relationships are common in many database applications. By using Peewee's through model functionality, we can easily define and query such relationships. This allows us to efficiently organize and retrieve data in complex scenarios involving multiple entities.

Peewee's intuitive and expressive syntax simplifies the process of setting up and working with Many-to-Many through models, making it a powerful choice for Python developers.