---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] socket 클라이언트 소켓 만들기"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-06
tags: [python,socket]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will learn how to create a *socket client* in Python. *Sockets* provide a way for communication between two computers using a network. With sockets, we can establish a connection with a server and exchange data.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have Python installed on your system. You can download Python from the official website ([python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/)) and follow the installation instructions for your operating system.

## Socket Client Code

### Step 1: Importing the Required Modules

To create a socket client, we need to import the `socket` module in Python. This module provides functions and classes for working with sockets. Here is the import statement:

```python
import socket
```

### Step 2: Creating a Socket Object

Next, we need to create a *socket object*. We can use the `socket.socket()` function to create a socket object. Here is the code snippet:

```python
client_socket = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
```

In the above code, we are creating a TCP/IP socket using the `socket.SOCK_STREAM` parameter. If you want to create a UDP socket, you can use the `socket.SOCK_DGRAM` parameter.

### Step 3: Connecting to the Server

To establish a connection with a server, we use the `connect()` method of the socket object. We need to provide the IP address and port number of the server we want to connect to. Here is an example:

```python
server_address = ('127.0.0.1', 12345)
client_socket.connect(server_address)
```

In the above code, we are connecting to the server running on `127.0.0.1` (localhost) at port `12345`.

### Step 4: Sending and Receiving Data

Once the connection is established, we can send and receive data with the server. For sending data, we use the `send()` method of the socket object. Here is an example:

```python
message = "Hello, server!"
client_socket.send(message.encode())
```

In the above code, we are sending the message "Hello, server!" to the server. We need to encode the message using the `encode()` method to convert it to bytes.

For receiving data, we use the `recv()` method of the socket object. Here is an example:

```python
data = client_socket.recv(1024).decode()
print("Received data:", data)
```

In the above code, we are receiving data from the server. We specify the maximum amount of data to receive as `1024` bytes.

### Step 5: Closing the Connection

After we are done with the communication, we should close the connection. We can use the `close()` method of the socket object to close the connection. Here is an example:

```python
client_socket.close()
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to create a socket client in Python. We covered the steps of importing the required modules, creating a socket object, connecting to the server, sending and receiving data, and closing the connection. Now you can start building your own socket clients and interact with servers on a network. Happy coding!