---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Matplotlib 배경 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-01
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

Matplotlib is a powerful data visualization library in Python that allows you to create stunning plots and charts. One crucial aspect of creating visualizations is customizing the background or plot area to provide a visually appealing and informative backdrop for the data.

In this blog post, we will explore different methods to customize the background and plot area in Matplotlib.

## Changing the Background Color

You can easily change the background color of your plot by using the `set_facecolor` method of the figure object. Let's see an example:

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Create a figure and axes objects
fig, ax = plt.subplots()

# Plot your data
ax.plot(x, y)

# Set the background color
fig.set_facecolor('lightgrey')

# Show the plot
plt.show()
```

In the above code, we create a figure object using `plt.subplots()` and then plot our data on the axes object `ax`. We then use `fig.set_facecolor('lightgrey')` to set the background color of our plot. You can customize the color by passing any valid color name or hexadecimal code.

## Adding a Background Image

Another way to customize the plot background is by adding an image as the backdrop of your plot. Matplotlib provides the `imshow` function to display images.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import matplotlib.image as mpimg

# Read the image file
img = mpimg.imread('path/to/image.png')

# Display the image as the background
plt.imshow(img, extent=[xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax])

# Plot your data
plt.plot(x, y)

# Show the plot
plt.show()
```

In the above code, we first use `mpimg.imread()` to read the image file. Then, we use `plt.imshow()` to display the image as the plot background by specifying the extent of the image as `[xmin, xmax, ymin, ymax]`. Finally, we plot our data using `plt.plot()` and show the plot using `plt.show()`.

## Adding Grid Lines

Grid lines enhance the readability of a plot by providing a reference for data points. You can add grid lines using the `grid()` function in Matplotlib.

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

# Create a figure and axes objects
fig, ax = plt.subplots()

# Plot your data
ax.plot(x, y)

# Add grid lines
ax.grid(True)

# Show the plot
plt.show()
```

In the above code, we first create a figure object and plot our data. Then, we use `ax.grid(True)` to add grid lines to the plot. By default, the grid lines are set to be displayed, but you can customize their appearance by passing arguments to the `grid()` function.

## Conclusion

Customizing the background and plot area of your visualizations in Matplotlib can greatly enhance the aesthetics and legibility of your plots. Whether it is changing the background color, adding an image, or including grid lines, Matplotlib provides various options to make your plots visually appealing and informative. Experiment with these techniques to create stunning visualizations!

I hope you found this blog post helpful. Stay tuned for more Matplotlib tips and tricks!