---
layout: post
title: "Zsh 명령어 백그라운드 실행"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-12
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

> Learn how to execute Zsh commands in the background in Linux

When working with the Zsh shell in a Linux environment, there are times when you may need to execute commands in the background. This can be useful when running long-running tasks or when you want to continue working without waiting for a command to finish.

In this blog post, we will explore how to run commands in the background using Zsh in Linux. We will cover two methods: using the `&` operator and using the `bg` command.

## Method 1: Using the `&` Operator

The simplest way to run a Zsh command in the background is by appending the `&` operator at the end of the command. For example, to run a script called `my_script.sh` in the background, you can use the following command:

```zsh
$ ./my_script.sh &
```

By adding the `&` symbol, the shell executes the command in the background and returns control to the user immediately. You'll see the process ID (PID) printed, which can be useful for monitoring or killing the process later if needed.

## Method 2: Using the `bg` Command

The `bg` command is another way to execute commands in the background using Zsh. This method is particularly helpful when you have a command already running in the foreground that you want to move to the background.

1. Start a command in the foreground without appending `&` at the end. For example, let's start a `sleep` command:

   ```zsh
   $ sleep 10
   ```

2. Press `Ctrl + Z` to suspend the command.

3. Use the `bg` command to move the suspended command to the background:

   ```zsh
   $ bg
   ```

The `bg` command will restart the suspended command in the background, and you can continue working in the shell.

## Monitoring Background Processes

To monitor or manage background processes, you can use various commands such as `jobs`, `ps`, and `kill`. Here are a few examples:

- Use `jobs` to list all currently running background jobs:

  ```zsh
  $ jobs
  ```

- Use `ps` to display detailed information about processes, including background ones:

  ```zsh
  $ ps -ef | grep <process_name>
  ```

- Use `kill` to terminate a background process by its PID:

  ```zsh
  $ kill <pid>
  ```

Remember, running processes in the background can be convenient, but it may consume system resources. Make sure to monitor and manage your background processes accordingly.

In conclusion, running Zsh commands in the background in Linux is straightforward using either the `&` operator or the `bg` command. Experiment with these methods and leverage background execution to enhance your productivity in the shell.

Happy coding!