---
layout: post
title: "Zsh 터미널 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-12
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

Zsh (Z Shell) is a powerful shell that provides interactive features and improvements over Bash, the default shell in most Linux distributions. In this blog post, we will explore how to set up and customize Zsh in Linux.

## Installing Zsh

Before you can start configuring Zsh, you need to install it on your Linux system. The installation process may vary depending on your Linux distribution, but most distributions provide Zsh in their package repositories. 

### Ubuntu/Debian

Open a terminal and run the following command to install Zsh:

```shell
sudo apt-get install zsh
```

### Fedora

To install Zsh on Fedora, run the following command:

```shell
sudo dnf install zsh
```

### Arch Linux

On Arch Linux, you can install Zsh with the following command:

```shell
sudo pacman -S zsh
```

## Setting Zsh as the Default Shell

After installing Zsh, you can set it as your default shell by running the following command:

```shell
chsh -s $(which zsh)
```

This command will change the login shell to Zsh for the current user. You will need to log out and log back in for the changes to take effect.

## Customizing Zsh with Oh My Zsh

[Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/) is a popular Zsh framework that provides numerous plugins, themes, and configuration options to enhance your terminal experience. To install Oh My Zsh, run the following command:

```shell
sh -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/master/tools/install.sh)"
```

This command will clone the Oh My Zsh repository and set up the configuration files.

## Changing the Zsh Theme

Oh My Zsh comes with a variety of [themes](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/wiki/Themes) that you can choose from. To change the Zsh theme, open the `.zshrc` file in your preferred text editor:

```shell
nano ~/.zshrc
```

Look for the `ZSH_THEME` line and change the value to your desired theme. For example, to set the theme to `agnoster`, update the line to:

```
ZSH_THEME="agnoster"
```

Save the changes and restart the terminal to apply the new theme.

## Adding Plugins to Zsh

Oh My Zsh offers a wide range of [plugins](https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/wiki/Plugins) that you can enable to extend the functionality of Zsh. To enable a plugin, open the `.zshrc` file and locate the `plugins` section. 

To add a plugin, append the plugin name to the list. For example, to enable the `git` plugin, update the line to:

```
plugins=(git)
```

Save the changes and restart the terminal for the plugin to take effect.

## Conclusion

Configuring Zsh in Linux is a great way to enhance your command-line experience. With the ability to customize themes, add plugins, and leverage the power of Oh My Zsh, you can transform your terminal into a powerful productivity tool.