---
layout: post
title: "Bash 디렉토리 파일 수정 일자 확인"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-12
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

Linux provides a powerful command-line interface for performing various tasks, including managing files and directories. One common task is to check the modification date of a file in a directory using the Bash terminal. In this blog post, we will explore how to accomplish this using a few simple commands.

## Method 1: Using the ls Command

The `ls` command is a commonly used tool to list files and directories in Linux. By adding the `-l` option, we can retrieve detailed information about each file, including the modification date and time. Here's an example:

```bash
ls -l path/to/file.txt
```

The output will show the modification date and time in the following format: `yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm`. You can find the modification information in the column that corresponds to the file name.

## Method 2: Using the stat Command

The `stat` command allows us to gather detailed information about a file or directory. By specifying the `%y` or `%Y` format option, we can extract the modification date in a specific format. Here's an example:

```bash
stat -c "%y" path/to/file.txt
```

The `%y` format option displays the last modification time in the format `yyyy-mm-dd hh:mm:ss`. If you want to extract only the date in the `yyyy-mm-dd` format, you can use `%Y` instead.

## Method 3: Using the find Command

The `find` command is another powerful tool used to search for files and perform actions on them. By combining it with the `-printf` option, we can print the modification date of a file. Here's an example:

```bash
find path/to -name "file.txt" -printf "%ty-%Tm-%Td"
```

In the above command, we specify the path to search (`path/to` in this example) and the name of the file we want to find (`file.txt`). The `-printf` option lets us format the output, in this case, `%ty-%Tm-%Td` which gives us the modification date in the format `yy-mm-dd`.

## Conclusion

Checking the modification date of a file in a directory is an essential task in Linux system administration. Whether you prefer using the `ls`, `stat`, or `find` command, you can easily retrieve the modification information you need. Incorporate these commands into your workflow to effectively manage and monitor file changes in your Linux environment.