---
layout: post
title: "Bash 명령어 히스토리 저장"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-12
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

As a Linux user, you might find yourself using the **Bash** shell extensively to execute various commands. However, sometimes it can be helpful to have a record of the commands you have previously run. This is where the **Bash command history** feature comes in handy. Bash provides a way to store and retrieve the history of executed commands, allowing you to easily access and reuse them.

In this blog post, we will explore how to enable and configure Bash command history in Linux, as well as how to efficiently search and manipulate the command history.

## Enabling Bash Command History

By default, **Bash** keeps a record of the most recent **500** command history entries in a file called **.bash_history**. To enable command history, make sure the **HISTSIZE** environment variable is set to a non-zero value in your **.bashrc** file.

To update the **.bashrc** file, use the text editor of your choice:

```bash
$ nano ~/.bashrc
```

Add or update the following line in the file to set the **HISTSIZE** variable:

```bash
export HISTSIZE=1000
```

Save and exit the file. This will increase the maximum number of command history entries to **1000**. You can change this value according to your preference.

## Viewing Command History

To view your Bash command history, you can use the **history** command:

```bash
$ history
```

This command will display a list of the most recent commands executed, along with their corresponding line numbers. You can navigate through the command history by pressing the **Up** and **Down** arrow keys or by using the **Ctrl+P** (previous) and **Ctrl+N** (next) shortcuts.

## Searching Command History

Sometimes you may need to search for a specific command from your history. Bash provides the **Ctrl+R** shortcut to search backward through the command history. Simply start typing a few characters of the command you are looking for, and Bash will display the most recent match.

For example, if you are searching for a command that starts with **"ls"**, press **Ctrl+R** and type **"ls"**. Bash will display the most recent command that matches the search criteria. To execute the displayed command, press the **Enter** key.

## Manipulating Command History

Bash provides various commands and shortcuts to manipulate your command history.

- **!!**: This command allows you to quickly repeat the last command executed. For example, to rerun the last command, simply type **"!!"** and press **Enter**.
- **!n**: Use this command to run the command at line number **n** from your history. For example, **!500** will execute the command at line number **500** from the history list.
- **!string**: Running **!string** will execute the most recent command that starts with **string**. For example, **!ls** will execute the last **"ls"** command run.

## Conclusion

Enabling and utilizing the Bash command history feature can significantly improve your productivity as a Linux user. It allows you to quickly access and reuse previously executed commands, saving you time and effort. By following the steps outlined in this blog post, you can easily configure and maximize the benefits of Bash command history in Linux.