---
layout: post
title: "Generator functions in Python"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-29
tags: [python, generators]
comments: true
share: true
---

Python provides a powerful feature called **generator functions**, which allow us to create iterators in a simpler and more efficient way. Generator functions make use of the `yield` keyword instead of `return` to produce a sequence of values.

## How Generator Functions Work

When a generator function is called, it returns an iterator object without actually executing the function's body. The iterator object can be used to iterate over the sequence of values generated by the function.

As the iterator is being iterated, the function's body is executed until a `yield` statement is encountered. The value yielded is then returned by the iterator and the function's state is saved. The next time the iterator's `__next__()` method is called, execution resumes from where it left off.

This process continues until the function's body completes or a `return` statement is encountered. In the latter case, the iterator raises a `StopIteration` exception to signal the end of the sequence.

## Example of a Generator Function

Let's see an example of a generator function that generates a sequence of even numbers:

```python
def even_numbers(limit):
    num = 0
    while num <= limit:
        yield num
        num += 2
```

In this example, the `even_numbers` function generates even numbers starting from 0 up to a given `limit`. The `yield` statement is used to yield each number in the sequence.

## Using a Generator Function

To use a generator function and retrieve the values it generates, we can simply iterate over the iterator object returned by calling the function:

```python
numbers = even_numbers(10)
for num in numbers:
    print(num)
```

This will output:

```
0
2
4
6
8
10
```

Note that we only generate the even numbers up to the given limit. If we had used a regular function instead, we would have to store all the intermediate values in memory, which could be memory intensive for large sequences. However, using a generator function allows us to generate values on-the-fly, saving memory and improving performance.

## Conclusion

Generator functions in Python provide an efficient way to generate sequences of values using the `yield` keyword. They allow us to create iterators without the need to store all the intermediate values in memory. Generator functions are a powerful feature that can greatly enhance the performance and scalability of our code.

#python #generators