---
layout: post
title: "Debian 디스플레이 설정"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-11
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

If you are using Debian as your operating system and you want to configure your display settings using the Bash shell, this guide is for you. Display settings control the resolution, refresh rate, and other aspects of your monitor or screen.

In Debian, you can use the `xrandr` command-line tool to configure your display settings. It is a powerful utility that allows you to control multiple aspects of your display configuration.

Here are some common display settings you can configure using `xrandr`:

## 1. Display Resolution

To change the display resolution, you can use the `--mode` option followed by the desired resolution. For example, to set the display resolution to `1920x1080`, you can use the following command:

```
xrandr --output <output_name> --mode 1920x1080
```

Replace `<output_name>` with the name of your display output. You can list all the available display outputs using the `xrandr` command without any options.

## 2. Display Refresh Rate

To change the display refresh rate, you can use the `--rate` option followed by the desired refresh rate. For example, to set the refresh rate to `60 Hz`, you can use the following command:

```
xrandr --output <output_name> --rate 60
```

Replace `<output_name>` with the name of your display output.

## 3. Display Orientation

To change the display orientation, you can use the `--rotate` option followed by the desired rotation value. The rotation value can be `normal`, `inverted`, `left`, or `right`. For example, to rotate the display to the left, you can use the following command:

```
xrandr --output <output_name> --rotate left
```

Replace `<output_name>` with the name of your display output.

## 4. Display Position

To change the position of the display, you can use the `--pos` option followed by the desired position in pixels. For example, to set the display position to `(0,0)`, you can use the following command:

```
xrandr --output <output_name> --pos 0x0
```

Replace `<output_name>` with the name of your display output.

## 5. Display Mirroring

To enable display mirroring, you can use the `--same-as` option followed by the name of the reference output. For example, to mirror the display with the output named `HDMI1`, you can use the following command:

```
xrandr --output <output_name> --same-as HDMI1
```

Replace `<output_name>` with the name of your display output.

Remember to replace `<output_name>` with the appropriate name of your display output. You can find the names of your display outputs by running the `xrandr` command without any options.

By using the `xrandr` command, you can easily configure your display settings in Debian using the Bash shell. Experiment with different settings and find the configuration that suits your needs.

Enjoy your customized display configuration in Debian!