---
layout: post
title: "리눅스 몽고DB"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-11
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

MongoDB is a popular NoSQL database that provides high-performance and scalable storage solutions. In this blog post, we will explore how to install and work with MongoDB on a Linux system using the Bash command-line interface.

## Installing MongoDB

Before getting started, ensure that you have [Bash](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/) installed on your Linux system. To install MongoDB, follow the steps below:

1. Open Terminal by pressing `Ctrl + Alt + T` or searching for "Terminal" in your system's applications.
2. Update the package list by running the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo apt update
   ```

3. Install MongoDB by executing the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo apt install mongodb
   ```

4. Once the installation completes, start the MongoDB service using the following command:

   ```bash
   sudo systemctl start mongodb
   ```

Congratulations! You have successfully installed MongoDB on your Linux system.

## Interacting with MongoDB

MongoDB provides a command-line interface called `mongo` to interact with the database. To access the MongoDB shell, follow the steps below:

1. Open Terminal and execute the following command:

   ```bash
   mongo
   ```

   This will connect you to the local MongoDB instance.

2. In the MongoDB shell, you can execute various commands to manage databases, collections, and documents. Here are a few essential commands:

   - To show all available databases, use:

     ```bash
     show databases
     ```

   - To switch to a specific database or create a new one, use:

     ```bash
     use <database_name>
     ```

   - To show all collections in the current database, use:

     ```bash
     show collections
     ```

   - To perform queries or insert documents into a collection, use the MongoDB query language. For example:

     ```bash
     db.<collection_name>.find()
     db.<collection_name>.insertOne({key: "value"})
     ```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to install MongoDB on a Linux system using the Bash command-line interface. We also learned how to interact with MongoDB using the `mongo` shell and execute commands to manage databases, collections, and documents.

MongoDB provides a flexible and powerful solution for working with large volumes of data in a scalable and efficient manner. By leveraging the Bash CLI, developers can seamlessly integrate MongoDB into their Linux workflows.

Thanks for reading! If you have any questions or further topics you'd like us to cover, please leave a comment below.