---
layout: post
title: "리눅스 명령어"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-11
tags: [linux]
comments: true
share: true
---

## Overview
Linux is an operating system that offers a command-line interface to interact with the system. In this blog post, we will explore some commonly used **Linux commands** and their functionalities. Whether you are a beginner or an experienced user, mastering these commands can greatly enhance your productivity and efficiency when working with Linux.

## File and Directory Commands

### pwd: Print Working Directory
The `pwd` command allows you to **display the current directory** you are working in. It is useful to quickly check your location within the file system.

```
$ pwd
/home/user
```

### ls: List Files and Directories
The `ls` command lists the files and directories in the current directory. It provides important information such as file permissions, sizes, and creation dates.

```
$ ls
file1.txt  file2.txt  directory1  directory2
```

### cd: Change Directory
The `cd` command is used to **change the current directory**. You can navigate to a specific directory by specifying its path.

```
$ cd directory1
$ pwd
/home/user/directory1
```

### mkdir: Make Directory
With the `mkdir` command, you can create a new directory.

```
$ mkdir new_directory
```

### rm: Remove Files and Directories
The `rm` command is used to **delete files or directories**. Be cautious when using this command, as deleted files cannot be recovered.

```
$ rm file1.txt
```

## System Commands

### uname: Print System Information
The `uname` command displays basic information about the system, such as the kernel version and system architecture.

```
$ uname -a
Linux mymachine 5.4.0-65-generic #73-Ubuntu SMP Mon Jan 18 17:25:17 UTC 2021 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
```

### top: Monitor System Processes
The `top` command shows an **interactive real-time overview** of the system processes, including CPU usage, memory consumption, and more.

```
$ top
```

### df: Disk Space Usage
The `df` command displays the **disk space usage** of file systems on the system.

```
$ df -h
Filesystem      Size  Used Avail Use% Mounted on
/dev/sda1        20G  5.5G   14G  29% /
tmpfs           394M     0  394M   0% /dev/shm
```

### man: Access Manual Pages
The `man` command allows you to access the **manual pages** of other commands. It provides extensive documentation, usage examples, and options for each command.

```
$ man ls
```

## Conclusion
These are just a few examples of the numerous powerful commands available in Linux. By familiarizing yourself with these commands and their functionalities, you can become more efficient and productive in your Linux environment. Practice and explore the vast array of Linux commands to unlock its full potential.

Remember, always refer to the **manual pages** (`man`) for further details and options of each command. Happy Linux command-line exploration!