---
layout: post
title: "자바스크립트 생성자 함수에서의 this 바인딩 동작 메커니즘 설명"
description: " "
date: 2023-10-02
tags: [javascript]
comments: true
share: true
---

In JavaScript, constructor functions provide a way to create multiple objects with similar properties and methods. When using a constructor function, one often encounters the `this` keyword, which refers to the current instance of the object being created. However, the behavior of `this` in constructor functions can be a bit nuanced and can sometimes cause confusion. In this blog post, we will explore the binding mechanism of `this` in JavaScript constructor functions.

## The 'this' Keyword in Constructor Functions

In JavaScript, a constructor function is defined using the `function` keyword and is intended to be called with the `new` keyword. When a constructor function is invoked with `new`, a new object is created and assigned to `this` within the function's execution context. This newly created object becomes the instance of the constructor function.

Here's an example of a simple constructor function that creates a `Person` object:

```javascript
function Person(name, age) {
  this.name = name;
  this.age = age;
}

const john = new Person("John Doe", 25);
```

In the example above, the `this` keyword is used to assign the `name` and `age` properties to the newly created `john` object. By using `this`, we can access and set the properties of the instance being created.

## Binding of 'this' in Constructor Functions

The binding of `this` in constructor functions depends on how the function is invoked. There are a few different ways in which the value of `this` can be determined:

1. When a constructor function is called with `new`, `this` refers to the newly created instance. This is the most common way to use constructor functions.

2. If a constructor function is called without `new`, `this` will refer to the global object (`window` in a browser environment or `global` in Node.js). This can cause unintended consequences, as the properties will be added to the global object instead of the intended instance.

3. We can also explicitly set the value of `this` using the `call()` or `apply()` methods. This allows us to borrow a constructor function and apply it to a different object.

It's worth noting that arrow functions do not have their own `this` binding. Instead, they inherit the `this` value from the surrounding scope, which means they are not suitable for use as constructor functions.

## Conclusion

Understanding how `this` is bound in JavaScript constructor functions is crucial for writing effective and bug-free code. By correctly utilizing `this`, we can ensure that properties and methods are assigned to the intended instance. Remember to always use the `new` keyword when invoking the constructor function to create new instances, and avoid unintentionally binding `this` to the global scope.

#JavaScript #ConstructorFunctions