---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] TCP 소켓 프로그래밍"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-04
tags: [python]
comments: true
share: true
---

*In this blog post, we will explore TCP socket programming in Python and how to create a simple client-server application using TCP sockets.*

## Introduction to TCP Socket Programming

TCP socket programming allows communication between two devices over a network using TCP/IP protocol. It enables the exchange of data in a reliable and ordered manner between the client and server.

## Creating a TCP Server

To create a TCP server in Python, you can make use of the `socket` module. Below is an example of a simple TCP server that listens for incoming connections and echoes back any received data.

```python
import socket

server_socket = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
host = '127.0.0.1'
port = 12345
server_socket.bind((host, port))
server_socket.listen(5)

print("Server listening on {}:{}".format(host, port))

while True:
    client_socket, client_address = server_socket.accept()
    print("New connection from {}:{}".format(client_address[0], client_address[1]))
    
    while True:
        data = client_socket.recv(1024)
        if not data:
            break
        client_socket.sendall(data)
    
    client_socket.close()
```

The `socket.socket()` function is used to create a new socket object with the specified address family and socket type. In this case, we initialize a TCP socket using `socket.AF_INET` for the address family and `socket.SOCK_STREAM` for the socket type.

We then bind the server socket to a specific host and port number using the `bind()` method. After that, we call the `listen()` method to start listening for incoming connections. The parameter passed to `listen()` specifies the maximum number of queued connections.

Once a new connection is accepted using `accept()` method, we create a new client socket for that connection. We then continuously receive data from the client using `recv()` and send it back using `sendall()` until the client closes the connection.

## Creating a TCP Client

To create a TCP client in Python, you can also use the `socket` module. Here is an example of a simple TCP client that connects to a server and sends data to it.

```python
import socket

client_socket = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_STREAM)
server_host = "127.0.0.1"
server_port = 12345
client_socket.connect((server_host, server_port))

message = "Hello, server!"
client_socket.send(message.encode('utf-8'))

response = client_socket.recv(1024)
print("Received response from server: {}".format(response.decode('utf-8')))

client_socket.close()
```

We create a new client socket using `socket.socket()` with the same address family and socket type as the server. Then, we use the `connect()` method to establish a connection with the server by specifying the server's IP address and port number.

Next, we send a message to the server using `send()` after encoding it to bytes. We then receive the server's response using `recv()` and decode it back to a string before printing it.

Finally, we close the client socket.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored TCP socket programming in Python and learned how to create a TCP server and a TCP client. TCP socket programming enables reliable communication between devices over a network, making it a powerful tool for building network applications.

Remember to always properly handle exceptions and close the sockets after usage to ensure efficient and secure network communication.