---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Web3 Smart Contract 함수 호출"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,Web3]
comments: true
share: true
---

To get started, you will need to have Python and Web3 installed on your computer. You can install Web3 using pip, by running the following command:

```python
pip install web3
```

Once you have Web3 installed, you can proceed to connect to the Ethereum network and interact with your smart contract. Here's an example of how to call a function on a deployed smart contract using Web3:

```python
from web3 import Web3

# Connect to an Ethereum node
web3 = Web3(Web3.HTTPProvider('https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR_INFURA_PROJECT_ID'))

# Set contract address and ABI
contract_address = '0xYourContractAddress'
contract_abi = [
  {
    "constant": True,
    "inputs": [],
    "name": "getBalance",
    "outputs": [
      {
        "name": "",
        "type": "uint256"
      }
    ],
    "payable": False,
    "stateMutability": "view",
    "type": "function"
  }
]

# Create contract instance
contract = web3.eth.contract(address=contract_address, abi=contract_abi)

# Call the function
balance = contract.functions.getBalance().call()

print(f"Balance: {balance}")
```

In the code above, we first import the Web3 library and create an instance of the Web3 class, connecting to an Ethereum node. Replace `'https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR_INFURA_PROJECT_ID'` with the URL of your Ethereum node or Infura endpoint.

Next, we set the contract address and ABI (Application Binary Interface). The contract address is the address of your deployed smart contract on the Ethereum network. The ABI is a JSON representation of the smart contract's interface, which includes the function definitions.

We then create a contract instance using the contract's address and ABI. With the contract instance, we can call the functions defined in the smart contract. In this example, we call the `getBalance` function and retrieve the return value, which is the account balance.

Finally, we print the balance to the console. You can replace the `print` statement with your desired logic to handle the returned value.

By using Web3 in Python, you can easily interact with smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain and leverage the power of decentralized applications.