---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] DRF 믹스인 사용법"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,DRF]
comments: true
share: true
---

**DRF** (Django Rest Framework) is a powerful framework for building RESTful APIs using the Django framework in Python. One of the key features of DRF is the flexibility it offers through the use of **mixins**.

Mixins in DRF are classes that provide specific functionality or behavior that can be easily added to your views or viewsets. They allow you to reuse code and extend the functionality of your API views without duplicating code or bloating your views.

In this blog post, we will explore the usage of mixins in DRF and see how they can simplify our API development process.

## Examples

Let's consider an example where we have a simple model called `Book` and we want to create an API endpoint to perform CRUD operations on this model.

### Creating a basic viewset without mixins

```python
from rest_framework import viewsets
from .models import Book
from .serializers import BookSerializer

class BookViewSet(viewsets.ModelViewSet):
    queryset = Book.objects.all()
    serializer_class = BookSerializer
```

In the above code, we have created a basic viewset `BookViewSet` that inherits from `ModelViewSet`. This provides us with default CRUD operations for our `Book` model.

### Using DRF mixins to enhance our viewset

Now, let's say we want to add some additional functionality to our `Book` API. We want to enable filtering, searching, and pagination. We can achieve this easily using DRF mixins.

```python
from rest_framework import viewsets, mixins
from .models import Book
from .serializers import BookSerializer

class BookViewSet(mixins.ListModelMixin,
                  mixins.CreateModelMixin,
                  mixins.RetrieveModelMixin,
                  mixins.UpdateModelMixin,
                  mixins.DestroyModelMixin,
                  viewsets.GenericViewSet):
    queryset = Book.objects.all()
    serializer_class = BookSerializer
```

In the above code, we have used multiple mixins such as `ListModelMixin`, `CreateModelMixin`, `RetrieveModelMixin`, `UpdateModelMixin`, and `DestroyModelMixin` to enhance our `Book` API viewset.

These mixins provide functionality like list all objects, create a new object, retrieve a single object, update an object, and delete an object respectively. By using the `GenericViewSet` class as the base class, we can combine these mixins into a single viewset.

### Adding custom actions with mixins

DRF mixins also allow us to add custom actions to our viewsets. For example, let's say we want to add an action to mark a book as "published". We can do that using the `action` decorator provided by DRF mixins.

```python
from rest_framework import viewsets, mixins
from rest_framework.decorators import action
from rest_framework.response import Response

class BookViewSet(mixins.ListModelMixin,
                  mixins.CreateModelMixin,
                  mixins.RetrieveModelMixin,
                  mixins.UpdateModelMixin,
                  mixins.DestroyModelMixin,
                  viewsets.GenericViewSet):
    queryset = Book.objects.all()
    serializer_class = BookSerializer

    @action(detail=True, methods=['post'])
    def publish(self, request, pk=None):
        book = self.get_object()
        book.published = True
        book.save()
        return Response({'status': 'success'})
```

In the above code, we have added a custom action called `publish`. It is decorated with the `action` decorator and is defined as a `POST` method. This action marks a book as "published" by updating the `published` field of the book object.

## Conclusion

DRF mixins provide a powerful and flexible way to extend and enhance your API views in Django. By using mixins, we can easily add common functionality to our views without duplicating code or bloating our viewsets.

In this blog post, we explored the usage of DRF mixins in Python. We saw how to create a basic viewset without mixins and then enhance it by using different mixins for added functionality. We also learned how to add custom actions to our viewsets using DRF mixins.

Using DRF mixins can greatly simplify the process of building robust APIs in Python, and it is definitely worth exploring and incorporating into your Django projects. Happy coding!