---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Google Cloud OS Login 사용자 로그인 관리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,google cloud python]
comments: true
share: true
---

## Introduction

Google Cloud OS Login is a feature that allows you to manage and control SSH access to your virtual machine instances running on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). In this blog post, we will explore how to use the Google Cloud OS Login feature in Python to manage user logins.

## Prerequisites

Before we proceed, make sure you have the following:

- A Google Cloud Platform account
- Python installed on your system
- The Google Cloud SDK and the Python client library (`google-cloud-sdk` and `google-auth`)

## Getting Started

To get started, you need to enable the OS Login feature in your project on GCP. Follow these steps:

1. Go to the Google Cloud Console (console.cloud.google.com).
2. Select the project you want to enable OS Login for.
3. In the left-hand navigation menu, go to **IAM & Admin > OS Login**.
4. Click on **Enable OS Login**.

Once you have enabled OS Login for your project, you are ready to start managing user logins using the Python client library.

## Authenticating with GCP

To authenticate your Python script with Google Cloud Platform, you can use a service account key or your personal credentials. Here's an example of how to authenticate using a service account key:

```python
from google.auth import compute_engine

credentials = compute_engine.Credentials()
```

## Managing User Logins

Once you have authenticated your script with GCP, you can start managing user logins. Here are a few examples of common tasks you can perform using the Python client library:

### Listing Users

To list all the users who have OS Login enabled, you can use the `oslogin` API client. Here's an example:

```python
from googleapiclient import discovery

oslogin = discovery.build('oslogin', 'v1')
response = oslogin.users().list().execute()
users = response.get('users', [])

for user in users:
    print(user['name'])
```

### Adding Users

To add a new user to the OS Login system, you can use the `users.create` API method. Here's an example:

```python
user_email = 'example@example.com'

response = oslogin.users().create(parent='users', body={
    'username': user_email.split('@')[0],
    'posixAccounts': [
        {
            'primary': True,
            'username': 'example',
            'uid': 12345,
            'gid': 12345,
            'homeDirectory': '/home/example',
            'shell': '/bin/bash'
        }
    ],
    'name': user_email
}).execute()
```

### Removing Users

To remove a user from the OS Login system, you can use the `users.delete` API method. Here's an example:

```python
user_email = 'example@example.com'

response = oslogin.users().delete(name=f'users/{user_email}').execute()
```

## Conclusion

Google Cloud OS Login provides a convenient way to manage and control user logins for your virtual machine instances on Google Cloud Platform. In this blog post, we explored how to use the Python client library to perform common tasks such as listing, adding, and removing users. By leveraging the power of Python and Google Cloud, you can easily manage and secure your VM instances. Happy coding!