---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] boto3 AWS License Manager 라이선스 규정 관리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,boto3]
comments: true
share: true
---

**Boto3** is the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Software Development Kit (SDK) for Python, which allows developers to easily interact with various AWS services. One of the services provided by AWS is **License Manager**, which enables you to manage your software licenses within your AWS infrastructure. In this blog post, we will explore how to use Boto3 to interact with AWS License Manager and manage license regulations in Python.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the following:

- An AWS account with appropriate permissions to access and use License Manager.
- Python installed on your local machine along with Boto3 library.

## Installing Boto3

To install Boto3, open your terminal and run the following command:

```python
pip install boto3
```

## Configuring AWS Credentials

To interact with AWS services, we need to provide our AWS credentials, which include an access key and a secret key. These credentials can be configured using the AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) or by directly modifying `~/.aws/credentials` file on your local machine. Make sure you have valid AWS credentials before proceeding.

## Creating an AWS License Manager client

To start managing your license regulations, you first need to create an **AWS License Manager** client object using Boto3. The client object allows you to interact with the License Manager service in AWS. Here's an example of creating a License Manager client:

```python
import boto3

# Create an AWS License Manager client
license_manager_client = boto3.client('license-manager')
```

## Managing License Configurations

License configurations define the rules and properties for licenses in AWS License Manager. Here is an example of how to create a license configuration using Boto3:

```python
response = license_manager_client.create_license_configuration(
    Name='MyLicenseConfig',
    Description='My license configuration',
    LicenseCountingType='vCPU',
    LicenseCount=10,
    LicenseCountHardLimit=True,
    DisassociateWhenNotFound=False,
    LicenseRules=[
        {
            'Name': 'Rule1',
            'Value': 'Value1'
        },
        {
            'Name': 'Rule2',
            'Value': 'Value2'
        }
    ]
)

print(response)
```

In this example, we create a license configuration with the name 'MyLicenseConfig'. We set the `LicenseCountingType` to 'vCPU', and specify a `LicenseCount` of 10 with a `LicenseCountHardLimit` set to `True`. We also define two license rules with their respective names and values.

## Listing License Configurations

To view a list of all license configurations in your AWS License Manager, you can use the `list_license_configurations` method as shown below:

```python
response = license_manager_client.list_license_configurations()

for license_configuration in response['LicenseConfigurations']:
    print(license_configuration)
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use Boto3 to interact with AWS License Manager and manage license regulations in Python. We covered creating a License Manager client, creating license configurations, and listing existing license configurations. With Boto3 and AWS License Manager, you can effectively manage and enforce license regulations for your software applications running in the AWS cloud.

**Note**: This is just a brief introduction to using Boto3 for AWS License Manager. You can refer to the [official Boto3 documentation](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/index.html) for more details and explore other functionalities provided by the AWS License Manager service.