---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] datetime 날짜와 시간의 조건 필터링"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,datetime]
comments: true
share: true
---

Python's `datetime` module provides a powerful set of tools for working with dates and times. In this blog post, we'll explore how to filter dates and times based on certain conditions using the `datetime` module.

## Filtering Dates

To filter dates, we can use the `date` class from the `datetime` module. Let's say we have a list of dates and we want to filter out all the dates that are before a certain date. We can write a function like this:

```python
from datetime import date

def filter_dates_before(dates_list, filter_date):
    filtered_dates = []
    for date_obj in dates_list:
        if date_obj < filter_date:
            filtered_dates.append(date_obj)
    return filtered_dates
```

Here, `filter_dates_before` takes a list of `date` objects and a `filter_date` as input. It iterates over each date in the list and checks if it is before the `filter_date`. If it is, the date is appended to the `filtered_dates` list. The function then returns the filtered list of dates.

Let's see an example of how to use this function:

```python
dates = [
    date(2021, 1, 1),
    date(2021, 2, 1),
    date(2021, 3, 1),
    date(2021, 4, 1),
    date(2021, 5, 1)
]

filtered_dates = filter_dates_before(dates, date(2021, 3, 1))
print(filtered_dates)
```

Output:
```
[datetime.date(2021, 1, 1), datetime.date(2021, 2, 1)]
```

In this example, the function filters out all the dates before March 1st, 2021. The resulting filtered list contains only the dates January 1st and February 1st, 2021.

## Filtering Times

To filter times, we can use the `time` class from the `datetime` module. Let's say we have a list of times and we want to filter out all the times that are after a certain time. We can write a function like this:

```python
from datetime import time

def filter_times_after(times_list, filter_time):
    filtered_times = []
    for time_obj in times_list:
        if time_obj > filter_time:
            filtered_times.append(time_obj)
    return filtered_times
```

Here, `filter_times_after` takes a list of `time` objects and a `filter_time` as input. It iterates over each time in the list and checks if it is after the `filter_time`. If it is, the time is appended to the `filtered_times` list. The function then returns the filtered list of times.

Let's see an example of how to use this function:

```python
times = [
    time(9, 0, 0),
    time(12, 0, 0),
    time(15, 0, 0),
    time(18, 0, 0),
    time(21, 0, 0)
]

filtered_times = filter_times_after(times, time(14, 0, 0))
print(filtered_times)
```

Output:
```
[datetime.time(15, 0), datetime.time(18, 0), datetime.time(21, 0)]
```

In this example, the function filters out all the times after 2 PM. The resulting filtered list contains the times 3 PM, 6 PM, and 9 PM.

## Conclusion

Filtering dates and times based on certain conditions is a common task when working with date and time data. Python's `datetime` module provides an easy and efficient way to perform such filtering. By utilizing the `date` and `time` classes from the `datetime` module, we can effectively filter out dates and times that meet our desired criteria.