---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] collections defaultdict와 리스트 활용"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,collections]
comments: true
share: true
---

Python provides a powerful and versatile data structure called `collections` which offers a variety of containers that are more powerful than the built-in ones. One of the most useful containers in the `collections` module is `defaultdict`. In this blog post, we will explore how to use `defaultdict` in combination with lists to solve common programming problems.

## What is defaultdict?

`defaultdict` is a subclass of the built-in `dict` class and it is defined in the `collections` module. It is similar to a regular dictionary, but it provides a default value for keys that have not been set yet. This can be very handy in situations where you need to set a default value for a key that doesn't exist.

The `defaultdict` constructor takes a callable as an argument, which is used to provide the default value for missing keys. This can be a function, a lambda expression, or a class. 

## Using defaultdict with lists

One of the most common use cases for `defaultdict` is to create a dictionary with default values as empty lists. This allows us to easily store multiple values for a single key. 

Let's consider an example where we want to store the names of students based on their grades. We can use `defaultdict` to map each grade to a list of student names.

```python
from collections import defaultdict

grades = defaultdict(list)

grades['A'].append('John')
grades['B'].append('Alice')
grades['A'].append('Bob')
grades['C'].append('Eve')

print(grades)
```

In this example, `grades['A']` is initially an empty list, and we use the `append()` method to add names to the list for the grade 'A'. Similarly, we can add names for other grades as well.

The output of the above code will be:
```
defaultdict(<class 'list'>, {'A': ['John', 'Bob'], 'B': ['Alice'], 'C': ['Eve']})
```

As you can see, we have created a dictionary where each grade maps to a list of student names.

## Conclusion

The combination of `collections defaultdict` and lists in Python provides a powerful tool for solving various programming problems. By using `defaultdict` to provide default values as empty lists, we can easily organize and manipulate data in a more efficient way. Make sure to explore the `collections` module for other useful data structures it offers.

Remember to import the `defaultdict` class from the `collections` module before using it in your code:

```python
from collections import defaultdict
```

With the knowledge about `defaultdict` and lists, you are now better equipped to handle situations that require storing multiple values for a single key.