---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] DRF 콘텐츠 타입 라우팅"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,DRF]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to implement content type-based routing in Django Rest Framework (DRF) using Python.

## Introduction

The Django Rest Framework provides powerful tools for building RESTful APIs in Python. One of its key features is content type negotiation, which allows the API to respond with different content formats based on the client's request. The content types can include JSON, XML, HTML, etc.

By default, DRF uses the Accept Header to determine the content type requested by the client. However, in some cases, it may be necessary to override this behavior and route requests to a specific content type based on different conditions.

## Content Type Routing in DRF

DRF provides a content type router class called `DefaultRouter` that allows us to define custom mappings for different content types. This router can be used alongside the regular viewsets and routers in DRF.

Let's start by installing Django Rest Framework:

```python
pip install djangorestframework
```

Next, we'll define a custom router class that extends `DefaultRouter` and overrides the `get_api_root_view` method. In this method, we'll check the request's content type and route it accordingly.

```python
from rest_framework.routers import DefaultRouter

class ContentTypeRouter(DefaultRouter):

    def get_api_root_view(self, *args, **kwargs):
        view = super().get_api_root_view(*args, **kwargs)
        def _wrapped_view(request, *args, **kwargs):
            content_type = request.META.get('CONTENT_TYPE', None)
            
            if content_type == 'application/json':
                # Route to JSON view
                return JSONView.as_view()(request, *args, **kwargs)
            elif content_type == 'application/xml':
                # Route to XML view
                return XMLView.as_view()(request, *args, **kwargs)
            else:
                # Default route
                return view(request, *args, **kwargs)
        return _wrapped_view
```

In the code above, we first extract the `CONTENT_TYPE` from the request's `META` dictionary. We then use a series of if-else statements to determine the content type and route the request accordingly. If the content type doesn't match any of the conditions, we simply return the default view.

## Implementing Content Type Routing

To use the `ContentTypeRouter`, we need to update our Django `urls.py` file. We'll replace the regular router with our custom router as follows:

```python
from django.urls import path, include
from .router import ContentTypeRouter
from .views import MyViewSet

router = ContentTypeRouter()
router.register(r'myviewset', MyViewSet, basename='myviewset')

urlpatterns = [
    path('api/', include(router.urls)),
]
```

In the example above, we create a router object of `ContentTypeRouter` and register our `MyViewSet` with the desired basename. We then include the router's URLs in our `urlpatterns`.

With this implementation, when a request is made to the `myviewset` endpoint, the `get_api_root_view` method of the `ContentTypeRouter` will be triggered. Based on the request's content type, the appropriate view will be routed.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to implement content type-based routing in Django Rest Framework using a custom router class. By extending the `DefaultRouter` class and overriding the `get_api_root_view` method, we can route requests to different views based on the requested content type.

Content type routing provides flexibility in handling different types of data formats in a RESTful API and allows us to provide tailored responses to clients based on their preferred content type.