---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] boto3 AWS Ground Station 위성 데이터 수신"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,boto3]
comments: true
share: true
---

In this blog post, we will explore how to use the Boto3 library in Python to receive satellite data from AWS Ground Station. AWS Ground Station is a fully managed service that allows you to control satellite communications, downlink satellite data, and process it on the AWS cloud.

## Prerequisites
Before we begin, make sure you have the following:

- AWS account
- Boto3 library installed
- IAM credentials with necessary permissions for AWS Ground Station

## Setting up the AWS Ground Station

1. Open the AWS Management Console and navigate to the AWS Ground Station service.

2. Create a Ground Station and configure it with the necessary settings such as satellite selection, dataflow endpoint, etc.

3. Note down the ARN (Amazon Resource Name) of the Ground Station, as we will need it later.

## Installing Boto3

To install Boto3, you can use pip, which is the package installer for Python:

```python
pip install boto3
```

## Importing Boto3 and Configuring Credentials

Before we can interact with AWS Ground Station, we need to import the Boto3 library and configure the credentials:

```python
import boto3

# Set up AWS credentials
session = boto3.Session(
    region_name='your-region-name',
    aws_access_key_id='your-access-key-id',
    aws_secret_access_key='your-secret-access-key'
)

# Create Ground Station client
ground_station_client = session.client('groundstation')
```

Make sure to replace `'your-region-name'`, `'your-access-key-id'`, and `'your-secret-access-key'` with your actual AWS credentials.

## Receiving Data from AWS Ground Station

To start receiving data from AWS Ground Station, we need to use the `get_dataflow_endpoint_group` API to get the ARN of the dataflow endpoint group associated with the Ground Station. Then, we can use the `create_contact` API to initiate a contact with the Ground Station, which will result in the satellite data being downlinked and made available for processing.

```python
# Get the ARN of the dataflow endpoint group
dataflow_endpoint_group_arn = '<dataflow-endpoint-group-arn>'

# Create a contact with the Ground Station
response = ground_station_client.create_contact(
    dataflow_endpoint_group_arn=dataflow_endpoint_group_arn,
    start_time_utc='<start-time-in-utc>',
    end_time_utc='<end-time-in-utc>',
    satelite_arn='<satelite-arn>',
    **other_optional_parameters
)

# Wait for the contact to complete
ground_station_client.get_waiter('contact_completed').wait(contactId=response['contactId'])

# Once the contact is complete, the satellite data will be available for processing
```

Make sure to replace `<dataflow-endpoint-group-arn>`, `<start-time-in-utc>`, `<end-time-in-utc>`, `<satelite-arn>`, and `**other_optional_parameters` with the appropriate values.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use Boto3, the AWS SDK for Python, to receive satellite data from AWS Ground Station. We discussed the steps to set up AWS Ground Station, install Boto3, configure credentials, and initiate a contact to receive satellite data. Using Boto3 and AWS Ground Station, you can easily integrate satellite data into your applications or workflows.

For more detailed documentation, refer to the [Boto3 AWS Ground Station API Reference](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/reference/services/groundstation.html).

Happy receiving!