---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] boto3 Amazon SQS 메시지 큐 관리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,boto3]
comments: true
share: true
---

Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS) is a fully managed message queuing service that enables you to decouple and scale microservices, distributed systems, and serverless applications. With SQS, you can send, store, and receive messages between software components at any volume, without losing messages or requiring other services to be available.

In this tutorial, we will explore how to manage SQS message queues using the Boto3 library in Python.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have the following:

- [Python](https://www.python.org/) installed on your machine
- [Boto3](https://boto3.amazonaws.com/v1/documentation/api/latest/index.html) library installed. You can install it using `pip install boto3`.

## Configuring AWS Credentials

To use Boto3 to interact with AWS services, you need to configure your AWS credentials. Follow the steps below to configure your credentials:

1. Visit the [AWS Management Console](https://console.aws.amazon.com/).
2. Log in to your AWS account.
3. Go to the IAM service.
4. Create a new user or use an existing one.
5. Attach the necessary permissions to the user. For managing SQS queues, you can use the AmazonSQSFullAccess policy.
6. Generate an access key and secret key for the user.
7. Store the access key and secret key in a safe place.

## Managing SQS Message Queues

### Creating a Queue

To create an SQS message queue, you can use the `create_queue` method. Here's an example:

```python
import boto3

# Create the SQS client
sqs = boto3.client('sqs')

# Create a new queue
response = sqs.create_queue(QueueName='my-queue')
queue_url = response['QueueUrl']

print(f"Created queue with URL: {queue_url}")
```

### Sending Messages to a Queue

Once you have created a queue, you can send messages to it using the `send_message` method. Here's an example:

```python
# Send a message to the queue
message_body = "Hello, SQS!"
response = sqs.send_message(QueueUrl=queue_url, MessageBody=message_body)

print(f"Message sent with ID: {response['MessageId']}")
```

### Receiving Messages from a Queue

To receive messages from a queue, you can use the `receive_message` method. Here's an example:

```python
# Receive messages from the queue
response = sqs.receive_message(QueueUrl=queue_url, MaxNumberOfMessages=1)

messages = response.get('Messages')
if messages:
    for message in messages:
        message_body = message['Body']
        receipt_handle = message['ReceiptHandle']
        print(f"Received message: {message_body}")

        # Delete the message from the queue
        sqs.delete_message(QueueUrl=queue_url, ReceiptHandle=receipt_handle)
else:
    print("No messages available in the queue")
```

### Deleting a Queue

To delete an SQS queue, you can use the `delete_queue` method. Here's an example:

```python
# Delete the queue
sqs.delete_queue(QueueUrl=queue_url)

print("Queue deleted successfully")
```

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, we learned how to manage SQS message queues using the Boto3 library in Python. We covered creating a queue, sending messages to a queue, receiving messages from a queue, and deleting a queue.