---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] pyOpenSSL PFX, P12 파일 관리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,pyOpenSSL]
comments: true
share: true
---

Managing PFX (Personal Information Exchange) and P12 files in Python can be done using the pyOpenSSL library. pyOpenSSL is a set of Python bindings for the OpenSSL library, which allows you to work with SSL/TLS certificates and cryptographic functions.

In this blog post, we will explore how to use pyOpenSSL to handle PFX and P12 files in Python.

## Prerequisites

Before getting started, make sure you have the `pyOpenSSL` library installed. You can install it using `pip`:

```
$ pip install pyOpenSSL
```

## Loading a PFX or P12 File

To load a PFX or P12 file, you need to create a `crypto.PKCS12` object with the file's contents. Here's an example:

```python
from OpenSSL import crypto

def load_pfx_file(pfx_file_path, password):
    with open(pfx_file_path, 'rb') as pfx_file:
        pfx = pfx_file.read()
        p12 = crypto.load_pkcs12(pfx, password)
    return p12
```

In the above code, we use the `load_pkcs12()` function to load the PFX file and provide the password to decrypt it if it's password-protected. The `crypto.PKCS12` object `p12` contains the certificate, private key, and any additional certificates chained with the main certificate.

## Accessing Certificate and Key

After loading the PFX or P12 file, you can access the certificate and private key using the `get_certificate()` and `get_privatekey()` methods, respectively.

Here's an example of how to access the certificate and private key:

```python
def extract_certificate_and_key(p12):
    certificate = p12.get_certificate()
    private_key = p12.get_privatekey()
    return certificate, private_key
```

You can then use the `certificate` and `private_key` objects to perform various operations such as retrieving the subject or issuer information, extracting public key, etc.

## Saving a PFX or P12 File

To save a PFX or P12 file, you can use the `save_pkcs12()` function provided by pyOpenSSL. Here's an example:

```python
def save_pfx_file(p12, password, output_file_path):
    pfx = p12.export(password)
    with open(output_file_path, 'wb') as pfx_file:
        pfx_file.write(pfx)
```

In the above code, we use the `export()` method of the `crypto.PKCS12` object to export the PFX file with the specified password. The resulting PFX file is then written to the output file path.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to use the pyOpenSSL library to manage PFX and P12 files in Python. We covered how to load a PFX or P12 file, access the certificate and private key, and save a PFX file. With these techniques, you can perform various operations on SSL/TLS certificates and cryptographic functions using pyOpenSSL.