---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] collections defaultdict의 nested structure"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,collections]
comments: true
share: true
---

Python's `collections` module provides the `defaultdict` class, which is a subclass of the built-in `dict` class. It allows us to create dictionaries with a default value for keys that have not been assigned any value yet.

In addition to its basic functionality, `defaultdict` can also be used to create nested data structures. By utilizing nested `defaultdicts`, we can easily create and manipulate complex data structures without worrying about initializing the nested levels manually.

## Creating a Nested defaultdict

To create a nested `defaultdict`, we need to import both `defaultdict` and `collections` from the `collections` module. Let's see an example:

```python
from collections import defaultdict

nested_dict = lambda: defaultdict(nested_dict)
my_nested_dict = nested_dict()
```

In this example, `nested_dict` is a lambda function that recursively creates `defaultdict` objects. `my_nested_dict` is an instance of this lambda function, effectively creating a nested `defaultdict`.

## Adding Values to a Nested defaultdict

To add values to a nested `defaultdict`, we can use the familiar dictionary syntax. If a key does not exist in the dictionary, it will be automatically created using the default factory specified during initialization.

Let's see how to add values to our `my_nested_dict`:

```python
my_nested_dict['key1']['key2']['key3'] = 'value'
```

In this example, we are assigning the value `'value'` to a nested key structure: `'key1' -> 'key2' -> 'key3'`. The nested dictionaries are created automatically as needed.

## Accessing Values from a Nested defaultdict

Accessing values from a nested `defaultdict` is similar to accessing values from a regular dictionary. We can use the familiar dictionary syntax to navigate through the nested levels.

```python
print(my_nested_dict['key1']['key2']['key3'])
```

This will output: `'value'`, which is the value associated with the key structure `'key1' -> 'key2' -> 'key3'`.

## Default Values in a Nested defaultdict

When working with nested defaultdicts, we can also specify a default value for the leaf nodes. This means that any new leaf node will have the specified default value.

```python
nested_dict_with_default = lambda: defaultdict(lambda: 'default_value')
my_nested_dict_with_default = nested_dict_with_default()
```

In this example, `my_nested_dict_with_default` is a nested defaultdict with a default value of `'default_value'`. This means any new leaf node will have the value `'default_value'` by default.

## Conclusion

Using `collections` `defaultdict`, we can easily create and manipulate nested data structures in Python. By leveraging the power of nested dictionaries, we can simplify our code and handle complex data structures effortlessly.