---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] hug와 메시지 브로커 통합"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,hug]
comments: true
share: true
---

In modern application development, it is common to have different services or components communicating with each other through message brokers. Message brokers handle the distribution of messages between different applications, providing a seamless integration between various systems.

In this blog post, we will explore how to integrate **hug**, a Python framework for building APIs, with a message broker. We will focus on using **RabbitMQ** as our message broker, but the concepts discussed here can be applied to other brokers as well.

## Setting up RabbitMQ

Before we can integrate RabbitMQ with our Hug API, we need to have a RabbitMQ server running. You can download and install RabbitMQ from their official website (https://www.rabbitmq.com/). Once installed, make sure RabbitMQ is running on your machine.

To interact with RabbitMQ from Python, we will use the **pika** library. You can install it using pip:

```python
pip install pika
```

## Publishing messages

To publish messages to a RabbitMQ exchange, we need to establish a connection and create a channel. The channel is where all the communication with RabbitMQ will take place. Let's see an example:

```python
import pika

def publish_message(message):
    connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters('localhost'))
    channel = connection.channel()
    channel.exchange_declare(exchange='my_exchange', exchange_type='direct')

    channel.basic_publish(exchange='my_exchange', routing_key='', body=message)
    connection.close()
```

In this example, we establish a connection to the RabbitMQ server running on 'localhost'. We then create a channel and declare an exchange called 'my_exchange' of type 'direct'. Finally, we publish a message to the exchange.

## Consuming messages

To consume messages from RabbitMQ, we need to listen for messages on a specific queue. Let's see an example:

```python
import pika

def consume_messages():
    connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters('localhost'))
    channel = connection.channel()
    channel.exchange_declare(exchange='my_exchange', exchange_type='direct')

    result = channel.queue_declare(queue='', exclusive=True)
    queue_name = result.method.queue

    channel.queue_bind(exchange='my_exchange', queue=queue_name)

    channel.basic_consume(queue=queue_name, on_message_callback=callback, auto_ack=True)
    channel.start_consuming()

def callback(ch, method, properties, body):
    print("Received message:", body)
```

In this example, we create a connection and channel as before. We declare the exchange 'my_exchange'. We then declare a queue with a random name (setting `exclusive=True`) and bind it to the exchange. Finally, we start consuming messages from the queue and define a callback function that will be triggered whenever a message is received.

## Integrating with Hug

Now that we have the basics of publishing and consuming messages with RabbitMQ, let's integrate it with Hug. We will create a Hug API that exposes an endpoint for publishing messages and another endpoint for consuming messages.

```python
import hug
import pika

connection = pika.BlockingConnection(pika.ConnectionParameters('localhost'))
channel = connection.channel()
channel.exchange_declare(exchange='my_exchange', exchange_type='direct')

@hug.post('/publish_message')
def publish_message(message: hug.types.text):
    channel.basic_publish(exchange='my_exchange', routing_key='', body=message)

@hug.get('/consume_messages')
def consume_messages():
    result = channel.queue_declare(queue='', exclusive=True)
    queue_name = result.method.queue

    channel.queue_bind(exchange='my_exchange', queue=queue_name)

    messages = []
    for method, properties, body in channel.consume(queue=queue_name, auto_ack=True):
        messages.append(body)
        if len(messages) >= 10:
            break
    
    return messages
```

In this example, we declare the RabbitMQ connection and channel outside the Hug endpoints to reuse the same connection for publishing and consuming messages. The `publish_message` endpoint allows clients to send messages to RabbitMQ, while the `consume_messages` endpoint retrieves a maximum of 10 messages from the queue.

## Conclusion

Integrating **hug** with a message broker like **RabbitMQ** allows for more resilient and scalable applications. With the ability to publish and consume messages asynchronously, different components of the system can communicate efficiently and reliably.

By following the examples in this blog post, you can start building robust APIs with **hug** and integrate them with a **message broker** like **RabbitMQ**. This combination enables you to build highly decoupled and responsive systems.

Remember to handle error conditions, such as connection failures, gracefully in your production code. 

Thanks for reading! If you have any questions or feedback, please leave a comment below.