---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] boto3와 Amazon Elastic Transcoder 미디어 변환"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,boto3]
comments: true
share: true
---

Amazon Elastic Transcoder is a highly scalable and reliable service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS) for transcoding media files. It allows you to convert media files from one format to another, resize, and apply various audio and video effects. In this blog post, we will explore how to use `boto3`, the AWS SDK for Python, to interact with the Amazon Elastic Transcoder service and perform media transcoding in Python.

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this tutorial, you need to have the following prerequisites:

1. An AWS account with access to the Elastic Transcoder service.
2. Python installed on your local machine.
3. The `boto3` library installed. You can install it using pip: `pip install boto3`.

## Setup

To get started, let's import the necessary modules and create an instance of the Elastic Transcoder client:

```python
import boto3

# Create an instance of the Elastic Transcoder client
transcoder = boto3.client('elastictranscoder')
```

## Creating a Pipeline

A **pipeline** is a collection of settings and operations that dictate how the Elastic Transcoder service processes your media files. Before you can start transcoding, you need to create a pipeline. Here's how you can create a pipeline using the `create_pipeline` method:

```python
pipeline_response = transcoder.create_pipeline(
    Name='MyPipeline',
    InputBucket='my-input-bucket',
    OutputBucket='my-output-bucket',
    Role='arn:aws:iam::1234567890:role/Elastic_Transcoder_Default_Role',
    Notifications={
        'Completed': 'arn:aws:sns:us-west-2:1234567890:MyTopic'
    }
)

pipeline_id = pipeline_response['Pipeline']['Id']
```

In the above code, we specify the name of the pipeline, input and output S3 buckets, IAM role, and an SNS topic for notifications.

## Transcoding a Media File

Once you have a pipeline, you can start transcoding your media files. Here's an example of how to create a job to transcode a media file:

```python
job_response = transcoder.create_job(
    PipelineId=pipeline_id,
    Input={
        'Key': 'my-video.mp4',
        'FrameRate': 'auto',
        'Resolution': 'auto',
        'AspectRatio': 'auto',
        'CodecOptions': {
            'Profile': 'baseline'
        }
    },
    Output={
        'Key': 'transcoded-video.mp4',
        'ThumbnailPattern': 'thumbnails/thumbnail-{count}',
        'PresetId': '1351620000001-100070'
    }
)

job_id = job_response['Job']['Id']
```

In the above code, we specify the pipeline ID, input file details (such as key, frame rate, resolution, etc.), output file details (such as key, thumbnail pattern, and preset), and get the job ID from the response.

## Monitoring Job Status

You can check the status of your transcoding job using the `get_job` method:

```python
job_details = transcoder.get_job(
    Id=job_id
)

status = job_details['Job']['Status']
```

Once the job status changes to `Complete`, it means the transcoding is finished and you can download the transcoded media file and thumbnails from the output S3 bucket.

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we learned how to use `boto3` to interact with the Amazon Elastic Transcoder service and perform media transcoding in Python. We covered creating a pipeline, creating a job to transcode a media file, and monitoring the job status. The Elastic Transcoder service provides a powerful and flexible solution for media transcoding, and `boto3` makes it easy to integrate it into your Python applications.

Give it a try and start converting your media files using Amazon Elastic Transcoder and Python today!