---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] boto3 AWS Step Functions 워크플로 관리"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,boto3]
comments: true
share: true
---

AWS Step Functions is a fully managed service that makes it easy to coordinate the components of distributed applications and microservices using **visual workflows**. By using Step Functions, developers can design and execute **serverless workflows** that can integrate with AWS services such as AWS Lambda, Amazon ECS, Amazon SNS, and more.

In this blog post, we will explore how to manage AWS Step Functions workflows using **boto3** - the AWS SDK for Python. Boto3 provides an easy-to-use interface to interact with various AWS services, including Step Functions.

## Prerequisites

Before we get started, make sure you have the following:

- An AWS account
- Boto3 library installed (`pip install boto3`)
- AWS credentials configured on your machine (either through environment variables or AWS CLI)

## Creating a Step Functions Workflow

To create a Step Functions workflow using boto3, you need to define the workflow in **Amazon States Language (ASL)**. ASL is a JSON-based language that is used to define the steps of a workflow. Each step can include state transition logic and input/output data.

Here's an example of a simple ASL workflow that has two states: `HelloWorld` and `GoodbyeWorld`.

```python
states = {
    "Comment": "A simple Step Functions workflow example",
    "StartAt": "HelloWorld",
    "States": {
        "HelloWorld": {
            "Type": "Pass",
            "Result": "Hello, World!",
            "End": True
        },
        "GoodbyeWorld": {
            "Type": "Pass",
            "Result": "Goodbye, World!",
            "End": True
        }
    }
}
```

## Creating and Managing Step Functions Workflow using boto3

To interact with AWS Step Functions using boto3, we need to import the `boto3` library and create a client object for Step Functions:

```python
import boto3

sf_client = boto3.client('stepfunctions')
```

### Creating a Workflow

To create a workflow, we use the `create_state_machine` method of the Step Functions client:

```python
response = sf_client.create_state_machine(
    name='MyWorkflow',
    definition=workflow_definition,
    roleArn='arn:aws:iam::1234567890:role/StepFunctions-WorkflowRole'
)
```

Here, `name` is the name of the workflow, `definition` is the ASL definition of the workflow, and `roleArn` is the ARN of the IAM role that has execution permissions for the workflow.

### Starting a Workflow Execution

To start a workflow execution, we use the `start_execution` method of the Step Functions client:

```python
response = sf_client.start_execution(
    stateMachineArn='arn:aws:states:us-east-1:1234567890:stateMachine:MyWorkflow',
    name='Execution1',
    input='{"key1": "value1"}'
)
```

Here, `stateMachineArn` is the ARN of the workflow, `name` is the name of the execution, and `input` is the input data for the execution.

### Managing Workflow Executions

To manage workflow executions, we can use various methods provided by the Step Functions client, such as `describe_execution`, `list_executions`, `get_execution_history`, etc. These methods allow us to get information about an execution, list all executions, and retrieve the execution history.

```python
response = sf_client.describe_execution(
    executionArn='arn:aws:states:us-east-1:1234567890:execution:MyWorkflow:Execution1'
)
```

### Deleting a Workflow

To delete a workflow, we can use the `delete_state_machine` method of the Step Functions client:

```python
response = sf_client.delete_state_machine(
    stateMachineArn='arn:aws:states:us-east-1:1234567890:stateMachine:MyWorkflow'
)
```

## Conclusion

In this blog post, we explored how to manage AWS Step Functions workflows using boto3. We learned how to create workflows, start executions, and manage executions using various methods provided by the boto3 Step Functions client.

AWS Step Functions is a powerful tool for building and managing complex workflows in a serverless environment. With boto3, interacting with Step Functions becomes even easier and more manageable in Python.

I hope this blog post has been helpful in getting you started with managing AWS Step Functions workflows using boto3.