---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Web3 Ether 잔액 조회"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,Web3]
comments: true
share: true
---

If you are interested in retrieving the Ether balance of an address using the Web3 library in Python, you've come to the right place. In this blog post, we will guide you through the process of connecting to an Ethereum node, querying the balance of an address, and displaying the result.

## Prerequisites

To follow along with this tutorial, ensure that you have the following prerequisites installed:

- Python (preferably version 3.x)
- Web3 library (`pip install web3`)

## Connecting to an Ethereum Node

Before querying the balance of an address, we need to establish a connection to an Ethereum node. This can be done using the web3 library by specifying the HTTP provider:

```python
from web3 import Web3

# Connect to an Ethereum node
web3 = Web3(Web3.HTTPProvider('https://mainnet.infura.io/v3/YOUR_INFURA_PROJECT_ID'))
```

Replace `YOUR_INFURA_PROJECT_ID` with your own Infura project ID. You can obtain one by creating an account on the Infura website.

## Querying an Address Balance

Once the connection is established, we can retrieve the balance of a specific Ethereum address using the `eth.getBalance()` method:

```python
# Address to query
address = '0x123456789abcdef123456789abcdef123456789'

# Retrieve the balance of the address
balance = web3.eth.getBalance(address)
```

Replace the `address` variable with the Ethereum address you want to query.

Note: The balance returned by `getBalance()` is in Wei, the smallest unit of Ether. To convert it to Ether, use `web3.fromWei(balance, 'ether')`.

## Displaying the Result

Now that we have the balance of the address, we can display it to the user. Here's an example of how you can print the balance in Ether:

```python
# Convert the balance to Ether
balance_ether = web3.fromWei(balance, 'ether')

# Print the balance
print(f"The balance of address {address} is {balance_ether} Ether.")
```

Feel free to format the output as per your needs.

## Conclusion

In this tutorial, we learned how to retrieve the Ether balance of an address using the Web3 library in Python. By connecting to an Ethereum node, querying the balance, and displaying the result, we were able to access important information about an address.

Web3 and Python offer powerful tools to interact with the Ethereum blockchain, enabling developers to create sophisticated applications and access blockchain data. Make sure to explore the Web3 documentation and experiment with other functionalities.

I hope you found this blog post helpful in understanding how to retrieve Ether balance in Python. Happy coding!