---
layout: post
title: "[파이썬] Google Cloud Scheduler 작업 스케줄링"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-08
tags: [python,google cloud python]
comments: true
share: true
---

Google Cloud Scheduler is a fully managed cron job scheduler that allows you to automate recurring tasks on Google Cloud Platform (GCP). With Cloud Scheduler, you can easily schedule jobs to run periodically at specified intervals or with cron expressions.

In this blog post, we will explore how to use Cloud Scheduler in Python to schedule and execute tasks in GCP.

## Setting up the Environment

Before getting started, you need to have a GCP project and the necessary credentials to access it. Once you have that set up, you can install the `google-cloud-sdk` package using pip.

```python
pip install --upgrade google-cloud-sdk
```

Once installed, you can authenticate with your GCP project using the following command:

```python
gcloud auth login
```

## Creating a Cloud Scheduler Job

To create a Cloud Scheduler job programmatically, we will use the `google-cloud-scheduler` library for Python. Let's start by installing the library:

```python
pip install --upgrade google-cloud-scheduler
```

Next, import the necessary modules and create a `CloudSchedulerClient`:

```python
from google.cloud import scheduler_v1

client = scheduler_v1.CloudSchedulerClient()
```

To create a job, define the `Job` object with the required properties:

```python
job = {
    "name": "projects/[PROJECT_ID]/locations/[REGION]/jobs/[JOB_ID]",
    "description": "My Cloud Scheduler Job",
    "schedule": "* * * * *",  # Cron expression for every minute
    "time_zone": "UTC",
    "http_target": {
        "uri": "https://my-api-endpoint.com",
        "http_method": "POST",
        "body": "Hello, Cloud Scheduler!",
    },
}
```

Modify the above properties as per your requirements. The `uri` field should point to the endpoint where you want to send the HTTP request.

To create the job, use the `create_job` method of the CloudSchedulerClient:

```python
response = client.create_job(parent='projects/[PROJECT_ID]/locations/[REGION]', job=job)
```

The `parent` parameter should be in the format `projects/[PROJECT_ID]/locations/[REGION]`.

## Handling Authenticated Requests

If your endpoint requires authentication or authorization, you need to pass the necessary headers or tokens along with the HTTP request. You can use libraries like `requests` to handle authenticated requests in Python.

```python
import requests

def make_authenticated_request(url, headers, body):
    response = requests.post(url, headers=headers, json=body)
    return response.text
```

Replace the `http_target` field in the `job` object with the following code:

```python
"http_target": {
    "uri": "https://my-api-endpoint.com",
    "http_method": "POST",
    "oauth_token": {
        "service_account_email": "my-service-account@project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com",
        "scope": "https://www.googleapis.com/auth/cloud-platform"
    }
}
```

Replace `my-service-account@project-id.iam.gserviceaccount.com` with the service account email and add any additional authorization scopes as required.

## Viewing and Managing Jobs

To view and manage Cloud Scheduler jobs, you can use the Cloud Scheduler UI in the GCP Console or the API. You can retrieve the jobs using the `list_jobs` method:

```python
response = client.list_jobs(parent='projects/[PROJECT_ID]/locations/[REGION]')
```

The response will contain a list of jobs that match the given parent parameter.

You can also delete a job using the `delete_job` method:

```python
client.delete_job(name='projects/[PROJECT_ID]/locations/[REGION]/jobs/[JOB_ID]')
```

Replace `[PROJECT_ID]`, `[REGION]`, and `[JOB_ID]` with your project ID, region, and job ID respectively.

## Conclusion

Google Cloud Scheduler provides a convenient way to schedule and automate recurring tasks in GCP. In this blog post, we explored how to create and manage Cloud Scheduler jobs using Python. With the ability to schedule tasks at regular intervals or with cron expressions, you can automate various processes in your applications on Google Cloud Platform.