---
layout: post
title: "프로퍼티 (Properties)"
description: " "
date: 2023-09-09
tags: [javascript]
comments: true
share: true
---

In JavaScript, properties are values associated with an object. They define the characteristics and behavior of an object. Properties can be primitive values like strings, numbers, booleans, or they can be objects themselves. 

### Accessing properties

There are two common ways to access properties in JavaScript: **dot notation** and **bracket notation**. Dot notation is used when you know the name of the property you want to access. 

```javascript
const person = {
  name: 'John',
  age: 30,
  occupation: 'Developer'
};

console.log(person.name); // Output: John
console.log(person.age); // Output: 30
```

In the example above, `person` is an object with properties `name`, `age`, and `occupation`. By using dot notation, we can access the values of these properties.

Bracket notation is used when the property name is stored in a variable or when the property name contains special characters.

```javascript
const propertyName = 'age';
console.log(person[propertyName]); // Output: 30

const specialPropertyName = 'occu*pation';
console.log(person[specialPropertyName]); // Output: Developer
```

### Modifying properties

Properties in JavaScript can be modified by assigning new values to them. This can be done using either dot notation or bracket notation.

```javascript
person.name = 'Jane';
console.log(person.name); // Output: Jane

person['age'] = 31;
console.log(person.age); // Output: 31
```

In the example above, we modify the `name` property to 'Jane' and the `age` property to 31.

### Adding new properties

New properties can be added to an existing object simply by assigning a value to a property name that doesn't exist.

```javascript
person.gender = 'Female';
console.log(person.gender); // Output: Female
```

In the code snippet above, we add a new property `gender` with the value 'Female' to the `person` object.

### Deleting properties

Properties can be removed from an object using the `delete` keyword followed by the property name.

```javascript
delete person.occupation;
console.log(person.occupation); // Output: undefined
```

In the example above, we delete the `occupation` property from the `person` object.

### Conclusion

Understanding properties in JavaScript is vital for working with objects. With properties, we can define various characteristics and behaviors of an object. We can access, modify, add, and delete properties to manipulate objects in our JavaScript programs.